ASIO is a human-led, data-driven, technology-enabled organisation committed to transparency wherever possible. ASIO's transparency statement, reviewed 19 February 2026, outlines our approach to AI, our principles, and commitment to accountability and oversight.
ASIO's Automation and Artificial Intelligence Policy outlines how ASIO will interact with Automation and AI and demonstrates our commitment to doing what is legal and doing what is right.
Our AI ethical principles guide our approach to capability development and our work using AI and its outputs. The principles ensure ethical considerations underpin ASIO's use of AI and are applied by all involved from development to implementation. They ensure an appropriate level of human involvement and acknowledge humans are accountable for decision making.
Human-led
Our use of AI supports human decision making. While we find ourselves required to delegate some routine, large-scale tasks to AI due to increasing volumes of data, we ensure that ultimately humans are accountable for decision making and that the use of AI includes an appropriate level of human involvement for the particular use-case. This is especially relevant in the case of decisions significantly affecting an individual.
Data-driven
We actively endeavour to evaluate the accuracy and limitations of AI models and determine whether an AI solution is appropriate for a given problem. We strive to understand, and where possible minimise through technical design and data usage, the biases inherently present in all AI.
Considered
We seek to recognise harms that may arise from the use of AI and act to minimise those harms whether they be individual or societal, reputational or operational. We balance potential risks and costs of using AI against both the benefits of AI and the risks associated with not using AI.
Accountable
We clearly and actively communicate information on proper usage and limitations of AI capabilities to users. Responsibility for proper use of AI is clearly articulated and a system of checks and balances is in place guiding use where appropriate to ensure our actions are reasonable, fair and proportionate.
Responsive
The use of AI is monitored as use-cases emerge or evolve over time—officers should be empowered to highlight any perceived issues with the use of AI. Where appropriate, systems are updated to ensure the use of AI continues to meet its intended purpose.
Security-conscious
Data and AI models are security classified and handled appropriately. This includes considering the potential for compromise of our capabilities arising from improper classification or sharing of data and AI models which is balanced against the need for the transparency afforded by a lower classification where appropriate.
Compliant and responsible
ASIO's use of AI complies with relevant legislation and codes of practice. Further, our use of AI and the data that support it considers not just whether we can do something (because the action is lawful) but whether we should do it—our use of AI must be respectful of the values of our democratic society as well as upholding ASIO values. We strive for transparency in the development, deployment and reporting of AI capabilities, to ensure we maintain our licence to operate.