On this page
Corporate plan
Our corporate plan is prepared annually and is our primary strategic planning document.
View our annual work program.
Compliance priorities
Our compliance priorities outline our key areas of focus for the year. They will guide our efforts to deliver effective compliance and, where necessary, targeted enforcement action.
Data strategy
Our Data strategy 2024–25 sets out a 12-month plan to enhance digital, data and analytical capabilities across the ACMA. It aims to improve the discoverability, usability and safety of our data.
Data and analytics are critical tools and capabilities that position us for the future. As recognised in our 2024–25 corporate plan, data and analytics support our evidence-based regulatory analysis and actions, and give greater insight into, and understanding of, Australia’s communications and media sectors. This 2024–25 strategy will be updated with a 4-year strategy and governance framework in 2025–26.
Statement of intent
Our statement of intent responds to the Australian Government’s statement of expectations outlining its expectations of us.
Review of the ACMA
On 12 June 2015, the then Minister for Communications announced that the Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development and Communications would conduct a wide-ranging review into the ACMA.
On 22 May 2017, the Australian Government released the final report of the ACMA review and its response.
For more information about the review, visit the Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development and Communications and the Arts.
ACMA AI transparency statement
The Digital Transformation Agency's Policy for the responsible use of AI in government sets out the Australian Government approach to embrace the opportunities of artificial intelligence (AI) for the benefit of Australians while ensuring its safe, ethical and responsible use, in line with community expectations.
The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) adhere to this policy supporting its principles and requirements to enable a forward-leaning approach to agency adoption.
We are committed to building AI capabilities and exploring how we use AI to strengthen the quality, efficiency and integrity of our regulatory functions while maintaining public trust. We use AI in a safe and responsible manner to support, but never replace, the professional judgement of staff, with clear human oversight and accountability for decisions and advice remaining with ACMA staff.
AI definition
In considering AI, we have adopted the OECD definition of AI, as outlined in the policy:
“An AI system is a machine‑based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.”
Why the ACMA uses, or considers using, AI
The ACMA uses, and is considering further use of, AI to support efficient, lawful and evidence-informed regulation. AI may help staff manage information, analyse data, improve internal workflows and test or improve digital systems. The ACMA’s use of AI is intended to support staff judgement, not replace human responsibility for regulatory decisions.
The main reasons the ACMA is exploring or using AI are to:
- improve the speed and consistency of internal analysis, research and document handling
- support data management, data quality checking and insight generation
- assist software development, debugging, testing and quality assurance for ACMA systems
- help staff summarise, search and organise large volumes of internal information
- improve workplace productivity while maintaining privacy, security, confidentiality and integrity
- strengthen ACMA’s ability to understand technological change, including the use of AI, in the communications and media sectors it regulates
How we use AI
In line with the Australian Government classification system for AI use, we use and consider AI across our active domain in the following usage patterns.
Usage patterns
Workplace productivity
We are currently using generative AI to improve workplace productivity for staff including:
- helping answer questions from staff regarding workplace policies
- summarising and transcribing meetings
- summarising, editing or refining documents, emails, instant messages and other content
- assist in the analysis to obtain insights from datasets, including identifying patterns and trends
- image processing and generation
Decision making and administrative action
ACMA uses AI to support decision making and administrative activities, not to make final decisions without human involvement. This includes using AI to assist with software development, debugging and testing when developing and administering digital and data systems. These uses support staff productivity within IT and enabling functions. All usage is subject to human testing and review before release, including where systems may be accessed by the public.
Analytics for insights
ACMA sees benefits in using AI to assist with data and insights in the areas of data management and obtaining insights from data through interrogation and analysis. ACMA’s data and insights can influence our approach to regulation, policy and informing advice to government on legislation and regulation.
Monitoring and governing AI use
ACMA manages risks associated with AI use through the following measures:
- AI tools and use cases are assessed for risks, including security, privacy and suitability, before approval. An internal AI policy sets requirements for responsible, ethical and secure use, including safeguards to protect the privacy, confidentiality and integrity of agency data and operations.
- Approved AI uses are monitored to ensure they continue to operate as intended and remain appropriate over time, including periodic review of performance and unintended impacts.
- AI is used to support, not replace, professional judgement, with decisions and advice remaining the responsibility of ACMA staff.
- AI use is overseen through established governance arrangements. Where issues or increased risks are identified, outputs are reviewed by staff and escalated, and ACMA can restrict, pause or stop the use of an AI system.
- ACMA requires staff to complete mandatory training on the responsible use of AI, with additional guidance and training for staff involved in AI‑enabled systems.
Future AI use intentions
ACMA may explore additional uses of AI where it supports our regulatory, corporate or operational functions and aligns with our legal obligations, risk appetite and public trust responsibilities. ACMA will take advantage of evolutionary whole of government AI initiatives such as GovAI. Any future use of AI will be subject to appropriate governance, risk assessment and human oversight.
Compliance and accountability
ACMA’s use of AI is governed through clear accountability and oversight arrangements:
- Our approach is supported by an AI Steering Committee that oversees AI adoption, considers proposed use cases, and assesses associated risks and alignment with Australian Government policy and ethical principles.
- We appointed a Chief AI Officer (CAIO) in February 2026 to lead AI adoption across the agency, champion strategic change and accelerate consistent and collaborative AI capability development across the APS.
- ACMA has designated an AI Accountable Official to oversee implementation of the Australian Government Policy for the responsible use of AI in government and ensure appropriate governance, compliance and assurance arrangements are in place.
We will not use AI in ways that are inconsistent with our legal obligations, public trust responsibilities, or Australian Government policy. AI will not make final regulatory decisions or enforcement decisions without accountable human judgment.
Transparency
ACMA will use AI where it helps us do our work better, safely and lawfully. We will use AI to support our regulatory, corporate and operational functions where it improves efficiency, supports better analysis, or reduces manual work. ACMA will consult with staff and their representatives when considering AI uses that may materially affect work practices, roles or responsibilities.
ACMA does not currently deploy AI in direct interactions with the public.
This AI transparency statement was last reviewed in June 2026 and updates the version released in February 2026. We will review and update it at least annually, as our AI use matures or when a significant change is made to the agencies or the Government’s approach to AI.
Contact
For questions about this statement or further information on our use of AI, please contact info@acma.gov.au.