This statement outlines our approach to the ongoing assessment, adoption and use of AI technologies at ARPANSA. It follows the Australian Government's Digital Transformation Agency's policy for the responsible AI use in government.
We recognise AI's potential to boost workplace productivity and pledge to use it safely and responsibly.
When considering AI, we apply the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) definition:
An AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.
Introduction
ARPANSA works to protect Australians and the environment from the harmful effects of radiation by promoting safe, ethical, and transparent use of artificial intelligence in its operations. This transparency statement describes ARPANSA’s approach to AI, following DTA guidelines for responsible government use and transparency.
Why we use AI
ARPANSA uses AI to support the delivery of high‑quality scientific advice, internal corporate operations, and regulatory assurance. AI helps staff perform routine or complex tasks more efficiently, enabling greater focus on mission‑critical work that protects the community from radiation risks.
How we use AI
ARPANSA’s current use of AI aligns with the DTA classification system for AI use in the following ways:
Usage patterns:
- Workplace productivity
- Analytics for insights
- Decision-support/administrative processes
- Innovation and process improvement.
Domains:
- Corporate and Enabling
Public interaction and impact
ARPANSA does not use AI in any way that directly interacts with members of the public. No AI system is used to make automated decisions about individuals, or to generate outcomes that could significantly impact individuals without human review.
Monitoring AI effectiveness and impacts
ARPANSA monitors AI use and applications to ensure ongoing safety, transparency and ethical operation. ARPANSA continually strengthens its AI governance in concert with our broader cyber security, data, digital and technical governance frameworks to ensure all AI use remains safe, ethical and well‑aligned with whole‑of‑agency risk settings.
ARPANSA has established governance and oversight mechanisms to support ethical and effective use of AI including:
- An AI Governance Working Group
- Communities of Practice and internal AI specialists
- CIO and CISO oversight
Training and capability
All staff who access AI tools must complete the AI Fundamentals mandatory training.
We are committed to building staff capability, including digital capability required at all levels of the agency. We offer AI training, education and support and provide opportunities to enable our workforce to develop their skills and knowledge. Training needs will be assessed as ARPANSA’s use of AI evolves.
Compliance
ARPANSA complies with the DTA policies, standards, legislation, privacy and security frameworks. The DTA requirements are regularly reviewed by the AI Working Group and Accountable Official.
This statement was last updated in March 2026. In line with the policy for Responsible Use of AI in Government, our statement will be reviewed at least annually and updated if our approach to and use of AI changes.
Accountable official
The Chief Information Officer was designated as ARPANSA’s Accountable Official for AI on 11 November 2024.
Contact
For questions about this statement please submit an enquiry via our online contact form.