AI transparency statement
How we develop, deploy and manage artificial intelligence
In accordance with the Policy for responsible use of AI in government this statement outlines how the ABS uses artificial intelligence (AI), how AI related risks are being managed and how we comply with legislation and policy.
AI use
As Australia’s national statistical agency, we use AI related technologies to enhance our operations to meet the needs of our data users and providers, the government and the Australian people.
We use AI to improve our productivity by supporting and automating business functions, including:
- using machine learning to apply standard classifications to data.
- using a generative AI chatbot as part of the Census. The chatbot is available on the Census website to provide help and support for the Census.
- using generative AI in the development and review of written content, such as summarising documents and transcribing meeting notes.
We will continue exploring additional AI opportunities as technologies evolve. This may include using AI for testing and assurance purposes. These uses would not involve public interaction, personal information or market sensitive information. Any outputs would be subject to review by ABS employees.
Public interaction and impact
The public will have the opportunity to use a generative AI chatbot to obtain information about the Census in August 2026. The chatbot uses a pre-written knowledge base and does not learn from user input. It is designed to operate without collecting personal information and automatically removes any personal details that are entered, ensuring your privacy is protected.
The public do not have direct interaction with any other systems that utilise AI technologies and will not be impacted by our use of AI.
AI governance
We have established governance processes and forums which we are further strengthening to assess and review potential business uses of AI. These arrangements ensure AI is implemented safely and responsibly in accordance with government policy and ethics principles. Ensuring data and cyber security is critical for us, and these aspects are essential in our consideration of AI technologies. We will monitor the effectiveness of AI technologies by capturing performance metrics, investigating user reported anomalies and conducting periodic system reviews.
AI risks and safety
We are aware of potential risks and take a risk-managed approach to the adoption of AI, particularly for public facing systems. All ABS staff who use AI are required to complete AI training and must agree to abide by ABS AI acceptable use directives.
We use forms of AI which are transparent and traceable, presenting lower potential risks and our AI governance ensures business uses are appropriately mitigating and managing risks.
Compliance
We only utilise AI services in accordance with applicable legislation, regulations, frameworks and policies. Our approach to AI has considered the Privacy Act (1988) and the Census and Statistics Act (1905), and complies with these requirements.
We comply with the Policy for responsible use of AI in government and have:
- appointed an accountable official who is responsible for implementing the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government,
- appointed a Chief AI Officer (CAIO) who will lead AI transformation at the ABS as part of the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service 2025, and
- provided AI fundamentals training to staff.
This transparency statement was published to our website on 15th July 2026, and will be updated every 12 months or as our approach to AI changes.
For further information or enquiries about our adoption of AI please use our general enquiry form.