Classification: OFFICIAL
Australian Electoral Commission Artificial
Intelligence (AI) Transparency Statement
Background
The Australian Electoral Commission (AEC) notes the Policy for the Responsible Use of AI in
Government (the Policy) requires that relevant agencies, including the AEC, release a transparency
statement providing information about their use of AI.
Consistent with the Policy, the AEC has provided the Digital Transformation Agency a link to this
statement on the AEC website.
The Policy also requires the AEC to nominate an accountable official for the implementation of the
Policy. The AEC’s AI Accountable Official is the First Assistant Commissioner, Corporate Services
and Governance Division. The AEC has also appointed the Chief Information Officer to the role of the
Chief AI Officer in recognition of the fundamental shift that generative AI is bringing to government
operations and as required in the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service.
The AEC’s use of AI
We have an internal policy on the use of AI by staff, which staff are required to follow when using AEC
approved AI tools. This policy encourages and assists staff to:
• not rely on the authenticity or veracity of content generated by AI, without human review
• understand safe and responsible use of AI in accordance with Australia's AI ethics framework
• not use AI to independently provide authoritative advice or make decisions in public facing
interactions
• comply with the AEC's AI in recruitment guidelines, which set expectations for the appropriate,
transparent and ethical use of AI in recruitment activities. The guidelines are informed by the
Australian Public Service Commission's recruitment principles for agencies and candidates.
The AEC also has an AI assurance assessment process in place to assess potential AI tools for use
based on the Pilot Australian Government AI assurance framework.
The AEC’s use of AI includes:
• GitHub Copilot – GitHub Copilot is a generative AI tool for technical staff, designed to improve
productivity and efficiency of software application development.

• Microsoft 365 Copilot – The AEC conducted a limited trial of Microsoft 365 Copilot (licensed
version) to evaluate its potential to support productivity and corporate work. The trial was
completed successfully, and Microsoft 365 Copilot remains available to participating staff. The
AEC’s use of Microsoft Copilot makes certain high-volume, manual tasks quicker – this allows
AEC staff to use more of their expertise on higher -value work and make more informed
decisions.

• Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat – By enabling Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat for all staff, the AEC is
enhancing staff productivity and collaboration across teams. In no way does the AEC’s use of
Copilot replace AEC staff, their expertise or thorough consideration of their work. Protections
are also in place to ensure it is a secure environment – it operates within Microsoft 365’s
enterprise grade security controls and it is not used to train AI models.
OFFICIAL

• GovAI Chat Trial – The AEC is participating in the whole- of-government GovAI Chat trial,
operated by the Department of Finance, through a limited evaluation involving a selected cohort
of staff. The trial offers a secure environment specifically designed for Australian Public Service
(APS) agencies to test the new AI capability , while maintaining government data sovereignty
requirements.

• Other – Some AEC staff have access to assistive and adaptive technologies such as
speech-to-text software along with a limited number of staff in our graphical design area who
use AI to generate educational images.

Key election operations – including voting and the counting process – are undertaken manually, in
accordance with electoral law.
The AEC uses AI in the following domain and usage pattern:
• Domain: Corporate and enabling. The AEC’s current use relates to supporting corporate
functions and improving operational efficiency.
• Usage pattern: Workplace productivity. The AEC’s current use is for workplace productivity
purposes. This includes summarising and analysing data and information, automating or
reducing time spent on administrative tasks and supporting software application development.
More information about usage patterns and domains is available at Classification system for AI use |
digital.gov.au
Identifying and protecting against risks to electoral integrity
The AEC acknowledges the transformative potential of AI for society and government, including
operational efficiencies and enhanced data analysis. The 2024 Australian Government trial of
Microsoft 365 Copilot showed productivity improvements but also highlighted barriers, concerns, and
risks associated with AI in government.
Public trust in the AEC is crucial for maintaining confidence in electoral processes and results, which
is essential for defending Australia's democracy. In a rapidly evolving digital landscape, meeting
community and stakeholder expectations is increasingly complex.
To maintain public confidence, the AEC emphasises the importance of transparency in how AI is
used in its operations, security, and information systems as detailed above in "The AEC’s use of AI”.
Third-party suppliers
The AEC has processes in place to manage the potential use of AI by third-party suppliers.
Agreements with third party providers contain confidentiality requirements that the provider is
contractually required to adhere to. Where applicable, the AEC additionally requires all relevant
provider personnel are Australian citizens and may require that personnel possess Australian
Government security clearances at a level the AEC deems appropriate per-role.
For applicable agreements (i.e. managed service arrangements), the AEC contractually requires that
AEC data remains onshore in Australia.
In cases where the provider is delivering an IT capability that processes AEC data, such solutions are
subject to the AEC’s review and approval through its governance processes. Any potential utilisation
of AI as part of such solutions would be identified as part of this process, including with respect to
potential data sovereignty issues.
OFFICIAL
Governance and legislation
Governance Structure
Senior Executive Committee:
• overarching monitoring of performance, accountability, risk, and agency direction
• chaired by the Australian Electoral Commissioner
• approves which AI tools can be used at the AEC in conjunction with the Corporate Enabling
Committee
Corporate Enabling Committee:
• oversees the AEC’s Use of AI Policy
• links operational governance and executive decision-making, providing an escalation pathway
to the Senior Executive Committee.

Advisory Audit Committee:
• established under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013 (PGPA
Act).
Compliance with Legislation and Regulation
• Privacy Act 1988: Regulates the collection, storage, and use of personal information by AI
• Archives Act 1983: Governs records created by AI
• Freedom of Information Act 1982: Provides public access to documents created by AI.
Oversight and Audits
• Compliance overseen by the Senior Executive Committee.
• Internal audits are conducted to detect non-compliance.
• The Regulatory Action Plan guides the AEC's approach to regulatory compliance, including
application of the new AI Policy.
Updates to this statement
Consistent with the Policy for the Responsible Use of AI in Government, this statement will be
updated at least once a year, or when the AEC makes a substantial change to the agency's approach
to AI, or when any new factor materially impacts the existing statement's accuracy. This statement
was updated on 31 July 2026 and is authorised by AEC’s AI Accountable Officer.
Contact
Enquires may be directed to media@aec.gov.au