Artificial Intelligence (AI) at the AOFM
The AOFM is exploring the benefits of emerging technologies such as AI.
The AOFM follows the policy for the responsible use of AI in government which provides mandatory requirements for departments and agencies relating to accountable officials, and transparency statements.
This page contains AOFM’s AI transparency statement and outlines progress against the outcomes in the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service 2025.
Key roles
The AOFM has designated the Manager, Data & Digital Solutions as the Accountable Official for artificial intelligence (AI) use within the department.
Accountable Officials are responsible for implementing the policy for the responsible use of AI in government.
The AOFM has designated the Manager, Data & Digital Solutions as AOFM's Chief AI Officer (CAIO). As part of the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service 2025, the CAIO will lead AI transformation at the AOFM.
AI Adoption
The AOFM receives information and communication technology (ICT) services from the Department of Treasury. We operate within the constraints of the Treasury ICT environment, including governance and policies around the acceptable use of AI.
Treasury’s endorsed AI products for staff use are Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat. Treasury permits use of some publicly available AI tools in line with the Digital Transformation Agency’s staff guidance on public generative AI.
Enterprise AI tools are piloted based on business needs.
AOFM’s current use of AI is classified as workplace productivity, with the aim over time to leverage AI to enhance our operational efficiency.
Public Interaction with AI
AI is not used in decision-making or service delivery, does not directly impact members of the public, and does not involve direct interaction with the public. All use of AI at the AOFM has human oversight.
Governance of AI
Governance of AI at the AOFM is integrated into existing management, risk and information governance arrangements including a specialised AI focus group.
The Australian Public Service Commission’s AI in Government Fundamentals course is available for all staff and is mandatory under the APS AI plan. As a prerequisite to utilising Enterprise AI tools, staff are required to complete internal training on the use of AI.
The AOFM complies with all applicable legislation and regulations, including the Protective Security Policy Framework (PSPF) and Information Security Manual (ISM).
The use of AI is governed by Treasury’s IT Acceptable Use Policy, AOFM’s Information Security Policy, and the Policy for responsible use of AI in government.
AI Safety and Risk Management
The AOFM applies a proportionate approach to managing risks associated with the use of artificial intelligence.
Current controls include:
- restricting AI use to approved tools within the Treasury ICT environment
- prohibiting the entry of sensitive, classified or market‑sensitive information into public AI tools
- maintaining human oversight of all AI‑assisted outputs, and
- aligning AI use with existing governance frameworks, including information security, privacy, records management and APS Values
As AI use evolves, the AOFM will continue to assess and manage risks associated with accuracy, bias, data handling and appropriate use, and will adapt controls as needed to ensure safe and responsible use.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The AOFM monitors the use of AI within the agency to assess its effectiveness and ensure it remains appropriate and aligned with policy requirements.
Current monitoring activities include:
- initial cost, risk and benefit assessments of AI use cases and tools across the agency
- oversight through existing governance forums and management structures
- monitoring developments in whole-of-government policy and guidance
Given the current limited and low-risk use of AI, performance measurement frameworks are basic. As AI adoption increases, the AOFM will strengthen monitoring and evaluation arrangements to assess effectiveness, benefits and risks on an ongoing basis.
The AOFM maintains visibility of AI use through internal oversight and reporting mechanisms appropriate to its scale and level of adoption.
Update Frequency
AOFM’s transparency statement is reviewed and updated annually or whenever significant changes occur. The most recent update was on 7 August 2026.
For further enquiries, please contact the AOFM at enquiries@aofm.gov.au.