Artificial Intelligence Transparency Statement
This page explains how the Authority is using artificial intelligence (AI), in line with the Australian Government’s Policy for responsible use of AI in government(Opens in a new tab/window).
When we refer to AI, we use the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development(Opens in a new tab/window) (OECD) definition of an AI system:
"A machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.”
The Authority’s commitment to digital innovation aligns with the Australian Government’s Data and Digital Government Strategy(Opens in a new tab/window), the National AI Plan(Opens in a new tab/window) and the APS AI Plan 2025(Opens in a new tab/window).
The Authority commits to using AI in a safe and responsible manner. We use AI with human oversight and do not rely on AI alone to make decisions.
How we use AI
The Authority uses AI to support our development of high‑quality, evidence‑based advice to the Australian Government and improve our workplace productivity.
In accordance with the Australian Government’s Classification system for AI use(Opens in a new tab/window), our current AI use focuses on scientific, policy, corporate and enabling domains.
Examples of how we use AI, with human oversight, include support with editing and drafting documents, assistance with policy research, analysis of structured and unstructured information to identify themes and insights, and support for creating internal administrative content such as minutes and transcripts.
The Authority supports staff use of generative AI tools by providing guidance to ensure use is responsible and ethical, and in accordance with relevant legislation and policies.
Public interaction and impact
The Authority is committed to ensuring that its use of AI is responsible, environmentally considerate, and in the public interest. The Authority does not currently use any AI systems that directly interact with the public or make decisions that affect individuals without human oversight.
Monitoring AI effectiveness and impacts
The Authority uses AI with human oversight, and staff remain responsible for confirming that AI‑assisted content is accurate and appropriate. AI use must comply with the Authority’s information, privacy and security requirements.
Governance processes
The Authority’s Corporate General Manager is designated as the accountable official for AI under the Policy for responsible use of AI in government(Opens in a new tab/window).
Staff must comply with all internal AI policies, which are aligned with broader Australian Government policy requirements and the Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment and Water’s (the Authority’s ICT shared service provider) policies.
Compliance
We comply with all mandatory requirements under the Policy for responsible use of AI in government(Opens in a new tab/window).
We use AI in accordance with applicable legislation and regulation, including (where relevant):
- Public Governance, Performance and Accountability Act 2013
- Privacy Act 1988
- Archives Act 1983
Contact
For further information or enquiries about this statement, please contact us.
AI Transparency statement review and updates
Last updated: February 2026
This statement will be reviewed at least annually and updated sooner if our approach to AI changes or if any material change affects the statement’s accuracy.