Artificial Intelligence Transparency Statement
The Commonwealth Grants Commission (CGC) is committed to the safe and responsible use of artificial intelligence (AI). The CGC recognises that AI provides opportunities to improve productivity, enhance analytical capability and support staff in delivering high-quality advice. This must be done while preserving accountability, transparency and public trust.
The CGC follows the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government - external site, which provides principles and mandatory requirements for agencies relating to the accelerated and sustainable adoption of AI. Consistent with the Policy, this AI Transparency Statement outlines the CGC’s approach to AI adoption.
Our approach to AI
The CGC encourages the responsible exploration and adoption of AI consistent with the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government - external site and our internal policies. The CCG’s focus is on building AI capability, fostering innovation and continuous improvement and ensuring staff are equipped to use AI confidently and responsibly.
How we use AI
The CGC's endorsed AI applications (ChatGPT, Microsoft 365 Copilot and GovAI) are used internally to support workplace productivity, with the aim over time to leverage AI to enhance our analytical capabilities, improve our advice and increase operational efficiency.
Based on the Digital Transformation Agency’s Classification system for AI use - external site, the CGC employs AI in the corporate and enabling domain in the following ways:
analytics for insights, for example where AI is used to assist staff with coding or underpinning the creation of data assets and analysis
research and analysis
workplace productivity, for example where AI is used to assist staff with communication, document summarisation and document creation.
The CGC does not use any AI systems that directly interact with the public or make decisions that affect individuals without human oversight.
Our governance arrangements
The CGC has robust governance arrangements, processes and risk management strategies underpinning the responsible and effective use of AI.
The CGC has an AI Accountable Official who is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government - external site. The CGC has a Chief AI Officer who, working with the AI Accountable Official, is responsible for championing and driving AI adoption in the CGC.
The CGC has an AI team to promote the safe and effective use of AI across the agency. The team identifies emerging AI capabilities, explores potential uses and use cases relevant to the CGC’s work, and encourages staff to identify opportunities where AI may assist with administrative, analytical and corporate functions. The AI team conducts an annual staff survey to monitor the use and effectiveness of AI. The team also holds regular training sessions on how to use AI appropriately and promote the opportunities it presents.
The CGC has an AI policy. The policy includes the CGC’s strategic position on AI adoption, guidance for staff on the responsible use of AI in the agency as well as what to do in the event of an incident. The Australian Public Service Commission’s AI in Government Fundamentals course is available for all staff and, as outlined in the CGC’s policy, staff must complete this training before beginning to use any AI tools.
Compliance
The CGC’s commitment to digital innovation aligns with the Australian Government’s Data and Digital Government Strategy - external site, the National AI Plan - external site and the APS AI Plan 2025 - external site.
The CGC complies with all applicable legislation and regulations, including the Protective Security Policy Framework - external site (PSPF) and Information Security Manual - external site (ISM).
Working with Treasury as our Information and Communications Technology provider, the use of AI is governed by our IT Acceptable Use Policy, Treasury’s Information Security Policy, and the Policy for responsible use of AI in government - external site.
All CGC AI policies and procedures, including this transparency statement, are reviewed and updated annually, or when significant changes occur. The most recent review of this transparency statement was in August 2026.
For enquiries about the CGC’s use of AI, please contact us.