Introduction
Defence Housing Australia (DHA) is committed to the ethical use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to enhance our services and operations while ensuring transparency, accountability, and the protection of privacy. This AI Transparency Statement outlines DHA’s approach to integrating AI technologies and how DHA will prioritise fairness, security, and transparency in all AI-driven initiatives.
Initiatives
DHA recognises the unique characteristics of AI systems means traditional governance approaches may not be appropriate. Therefore, DHA has committed to an AI Program of work to lay the foundations for AI readiness, compliance and benefits realisation.
DHA’s AI Initiatives will focus on continued improvements to our customers’ experience, through data driven decisions, remaining human centred and staying connected, coordinated and committed as we navigate the continually changing AI landscape.
1. Purpose of AI use
DHA will continue to investigate how AI can be used to enhance customer experiences, streamline operations, and support the effective delivery of housing solutions to Defence personnel and their families. AI systems will be designed to complement human decision-making, ensuring better outcomes for our stakeholders.
Usage patterns
In line with the DTA classification system, DHA's AI use falls primarily within:
- workplace productivity
- analytics for insights.
These uses support internal corporate and enabling functions such as information management, reporting and operational analysis. DHA does not currently use AI for automated decision‑making or administrative action without human oversight.
Domains
DHA’s AI use applies to the following domain:
- corporate and enabling.
AI is used internally to support functions such as ICT, communications and data analysis. It is not used for direct public service delivery or regulatory decision‑making.
2. Transparency and communication
DHA strives to ensure that our stakeholders are fully informed about the role of AI in our processes. At present, DHA does not use AI in decision‑making processes. If this changes in the future, we will clearly communicate when AI is used in a way that could reasonably be expected to significantly affect the rights or interests of DHA’s employees, customers, partners, or the broader community.
3. Ethical use of AI
DHA is committed to the ethical development and deployment of AI technologies. We will adhere to strict ethical principles that emphasise fairness, non-discrimination, and the avoidance of bias in all AI-driven activities. We will continuously monitor and audit AI models to ensure they operate in line with these principles. DHA will be guided by the Australian Government’s, "Australia's AI Ethics Principles".
4. Privacy and data protection
The use of AI at DHA will comply with Australian privacy laws and regulations. DHA takes the protection of personal information seriously and will ensure that AI systems are designed with privacy and personal information security at their core. DHA has blocked DeepSeek AI to meet the Department of Home Affairs Protective Security Policy Framework compliance.
5. Accountability and oversight
DHA will be guided by the Digital Transformation Agency Policy for responsible use of AI in government and the National framework for the assurance of AI in government. In addition, DHA will classify AI use according to DTA's Classification System(Opens in a new tab/window). DHA will maintain robust oversight of all AI systems, ensuring that there is a clear line of accountability and decisions made by AI. Risk based monitoring and reporting will be applied to DHA’s AI applications.
6. Stakeholder engagement and feedback
DHA recognises the importance of ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders, including defence personnel, their families, and the wider community. DHA will provide accessible channels for feedback on the use of AI technologies and will take appropriate action to address concerns or suggestions.
7. Continuous improvement
DHA is committed to continually improving our AI practices by investing in new technologies, training, and partnerships. DHA will adapt to emerging trends and best practices in using AI to ensure our systems remain transparent, effective, and aligned with our strategic objectives.
By following these principles, DHA will ensure that AI technologies are used responsibly and transparently, fostering trust and accountability with all stakeholders.