This page explains how we are using Artificial Intelligence, in line with the Digital Transformation Agency’s (DTA) Policy for responsible use of AI in government(external link).
We recognise that AI can help in supporting delivery of the outcomes in our Corporate Plan. Our commitment to digital innovation aligns with the Australian Government’s Data and Digital Government Strategy(external link), the National AI Plan(external link) and the APS AI Plan 2025(external link).
When we refer to AI, we use the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development(external link) (OECD) definition:
"A machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment." (OECD)
We commit to using AI in a safe and responsible manner. We always use AI with human oversight or intervention.
How we use AI
We currently use AI to support the delivery of innovative and expert advice to the Australian Government, grounded in evidence and science.
We classify our use of AI and related domains using the Australian Government classification system (see the Classification system for AI use on the DTA Artificial intelligence in government(external link) page), tailored to the department’s activities.
Our current use of AI focuses on policy, scientific, and administrative and regulatory domains, with humans always making the final decisions. We also use AI in corporate and enabling services, including media monitoring activities and support for clear communication.
Across these domains, we use AI to support policy development, analysis, monitoring, decision making, and communication by:
- informing decision making and administrative actions by providing input to human decision makers. For example, analysing document sets submitted to the department to ensure all relevant information is included.
- finding and creating insights from data through detailed analysis, predictive modelling, and reporting. For example, creating insights from unstructured PDF documents.
- improving workplace productivity through task automation, workflow management and communication support. For example, checking that documents meet accessibility requirements and providing feedback to improve clarity and conciseness.
- processing sensor data (such as video, imagery, sound, and radar) to identify patterns and objects. For example, identifying the presence of animals using thermal imaging.
We support staff using generative AI tools, by providing guidance on how to do so responsibly and ethically, and in accordance with relevant legislation and policies. Users of generative AI tools are reminded of their individual responsibilities when accessing publicly available tools.
AI in recruitment trial
We are undertaking a limited, opt-in trial of AI in recruitment. AI will be used to support comparison and evaluation of recruitment processes, alongside standard human assessment for this process. We do not use AI to make selection decisions about candidates. All decisions to shortlist, assess or select candidates are made by a human selection panel, consistent with APS merit based recruitment principles. Results and outcomes of the trial will be explored once the recruitment process is completed.
We continue exploring applications of AI to support our vision, purposes and outcomes as set out in our Corporate Plan and the APS AI Plan 2025(external link). This may include uses across policy development, program delivery, asset management, the administration of legislation and regulation. We will continue to update this statement as its use of AI changes.
Public interaction and impact
We are committed to ensuring our use of AI benefits the public. We recognise that assessing whether a particular use of AI is beneficial often requires judgement. Any decisions or outcomes generated or informed by AI that could affect the public will include human oversight or intervention to ensure fairness and accountability.
Monitoring AI effectiveness and impacts
We have established and maintain an AI use case register and risk assessment process. The register collects information on AI solutions that are in development or in use across the department. Each use case has an identified executive sponsor and business owner.
When completing the register, business owners ensure AI solutions is implemented safely and responsibly. This includes completing risk assessment and monitoring risk mitigating activities, ongoing effectiveness, potential negative impacts and implement steps to alleviate possible harms.
The AI register and AI risk assessment align with the DTA’s:
- Technical standard for government’s use of artificial intelligence(external link)
- AI Impact Assessment Tool(external link)
- Guidance on AI procurement in government(external link).
To support AI risk mitigation, we have finalised our AI Risk Appetite Guidelines which sit alongside tools supporting staff to assess and manage risk effectively. We have also developed and published an AI ethics and governance framework that aligns with whole-of-government policy.
Compliance
We use AI in line with:
- applicable legislation and regulations
- whole-of-government frameworks and policies
- the Policy for responsible use of AI in government(external link).
We review compliance through existing governance and risk management processes. As we implement our Enterprise Data Strategy, we continue to build a culture that balances innovation with responsible AI risk management and use.
Accountable official
Our Chief Data Officer was designated as the accountable official for the department under the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government(external link) on 11 November 2024.
Contact
For questions about this statement, contact: CDO@dcceew.gov.au
AI Transparency Statement review and updates
We last updated this statement in April 2026.
We will review and update it if our approach to or use of AI changes, and at least every 12 months, in line with policy requirements.