Treasury is exploring the benefits of emerging technologies such as AI.
Treasury follows the policy for the responsible use of AI in government. The policy provides mandatory requirements for departments and agencies relating to accountable officials, and transparency statements.
This page contains Treasury’s AI transparency statement. It outlines progress against the outcomes in the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service 2025.
Key roles
Treasury has appointed an accountable official for AI use within the department. Accountable officials are responsible for implementing the policy for the responsible use of AI in government.
A Chief AI Officer (CAIO) has been appointed. As part of the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service 2025, the CAIO will lead AI transformation at Treasury.
AI adoption
Treasury’s endorsed AI products for staff use are Microsoft 365 Copilot and Microsoft Copilot Chat. Treasury permits use of some publicly available AI tools in line with the Digital Transformation Agency’s staff guidance on public generative AI.
Enterprise AI tools are piloted based on business needs. Low-risk use cases are in an exploratory stage.
Treasury’s current use of AI is classified as workplace productivity. The aim over time is to leverage AI to enhance our operational efficiency.
Public interaction with AI
Treasury does not use AI in ways that that involve direct interaction with the public. Decisions are not made by AI. All use of AI at Treasury has human oversight.
Governance of AI
We established appropriate governance arrangements to support AI within Treasury.
All staff can access the Australian Public Service Commission’s AI in Government Fundamentals course. This course is mandatory under the APS AI plan. Staff are required to complete internal training on the use of AI before utilising Enterprise AI tools.
Treasury complies with all applicable legislation and regulations. This includes the Protective Security Policy Framework (PSPF) and Information Security Manual (ISM).
We have robust processes, regular reviews and audits, and proactive risk management strategies, including staff training programs, to make sure AI use is responsible and effective.
The use of AI is governed by:
- Treasury's IT Acceptable Use Policy
- Treasury’s Information Security Policy
- the Policy for responsible use of AI in government.
Update frequency
Treasury’s transparency statement is reviewed and updated annually or whenever significant changes occur. The most recent update was on 3 June 2026.
For enquiries, contact ai@treasury.gov.au.