Learn how the Department of Education uses artificial intelligence safely and responsibly to improve services, inform policy, and support quality education.
On this page:
The Department of Education recognises the opportunities artificial intelligence (AI) presents to transform the way we work and how we deliver our services. We are committed to using AI safely, responsibly and transparently to support our mission to ensure all Australians can access quality education.
Our use of AI is considered and purposeful. We are maturing our understanding and use through trialling and experimentation to better inform our policy development, unlock internal efficiencies and uplift our capabilities.
Our use of AI is informed by and aligned with the AI Plan for the Australian Public Service and the Policy for Responsible use of AI in Government.
The department is developing its own AI Strategy and Roadmap for the coming 12 – 18 month period. We also have our own internal AI Guidelines to help staff understand their responsibilities and obligations when using AI in the workplace.
AI Accountable Officer and Chief AI Officer
The Department of Education’s use of AI is overseen by our AI Accountable Officer and a Chief AI Officer. The AI Accountable Officer:
- is the primary contact for whole‑of‑government AI assurance and coordination, and keeping staff informed of AI policy obligations and changes,
- is accountable for implementing AI policy within the agency, including governance frameworks, transparency statements and internal registers,
- oversees AI risk assessments and ensures appropriate controls are in place.
The department’s AI Accountable Officer is Kerryn Kovacevic, Chief Information Officer.
The department’s Chief AI Officer is responsible for:
- leading and championing a department-wide approach to AI adoption, driving change and uplifting AI literacy in the department,
- identifying, prioritising and sponsoring high-value AI use cases,
- reporting to the department’s Executive Board, working with the AI Accountable Officer to ensure AI adoption occurs within agreed risk boundaries and in alignment with whole-of-government policy and community expectations.
The department’s Chief AI Officer is Brendan Moon, First Assistant Secretary, Child Care Integrity Division.
Governance and transparency
The department is maturing its AI governance arrangements. Existing governance arrangements such as the departments Audit and Risk Committee receive regular updates and review of AI usage, tooling, training and compliance.
The departments AI Transparency Statement and internal AI guidance are regularly reviewed and updated to reflect progress or changes and comply with Australian Government policy.
The department maintains an AI use case register and has clear guidance on approved tools and record keeping requirements in line with the Archives Act 1983.
The department has approved the use of Microsoft Copilot and made Copilot Chat available to all staff. All staff are required to complete the AI in Government Fundamentals training developed by the Australian Public Service Commission every 12 months.
Why and how does the department use Artificial Intelligence (AI)?
The Department of Education is primarily using AI to improve internal efficiency. Staff are encouraged to use AI to draft, summarise and refine their work, support the processing of large volumes of data and information, and reduce time spent on routine tasks. Staff must review outputs for quality and accuracy.
To minimise risk and safeguard the public, the Department of Education does not use AI for automated decision-making. All decisions are made by staff, ensuring human oversight and accountability.
Review and Updates
This statement is reviewed annually, or sooner if there are significant changes to how the Department uses AI.
Contact Information
For inquiries regarding the department’s use of AI, contact us.
This statement was last updated 05/05/2026.