The Digital Transformation Agency's (DTA) Policy for the responsible use of AI in government (DTA Policy) sets out the Australian Government approach to embrace the opportunities of artificial intelligence (AI) and provide for safe and responsible use of AI.
On this page:
We recognise that AI presents unique opportunities to innovate the way we work, but that this must be consistent with our role and responsibilities as a tribunal and an Australian Public Service entity.
We are committed to identifying ethical, responsible and meaningful use when considering the adoption of AI capabilities.
We will be transparent as we explore, adopt and integrate AI technology to benefit staff and external stakeholders.
Definition of artificial intelligence
Consistent with the DTA Policy, we use the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s definition of AI:
‘An AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.’
How we use AI
The Commission will not use generative AI to make decisions under the Fair Work Act 2009 or Fair Work (Registered Organisations) Act 2009. The power to make such decisions can only be exercised by an appropriate human office holder.
Usage Patterns and Domains
We are exploring the use of AI for analytics, insights and for workplace productivity purposes. We will use AI to support improved and efficient service delivery and our internal corporate activities. This may include:
- helping answer questions from staff regarding workplace policies and entitlements
- improving accessibility to help all staff use platforms, applications and services
- summarising documents, emails and other content
- performing transcription of interviews and meeting notes
- redacting information before providing to third parties
- creation or assistance with the generation of creative content
Non-generative AI is a component of our Document search tool, which allows users to search our decisions, agreements and awards and other case material.
You can find further information about usage patterns and domains on the Australian Government's Artificial intelligence in government webpage.
Public Interaction
We do not currently use generative AI in a way that the public could interact with it, or be significantly impacted by it, without a human intermediary or intervention.
To enhance our service delivery in future, we may develop generative AI tools that the public can interact with. We will update this statement as required.
How we comply with the DTA Policy and other legislation
We have established an internal Artificial Intelligence Assessment Committee (AIAC) to provide oversight of our use of AI to ensure it meets government requirements and satisfies public expectations. We have appointed the chair of that committee as the official with accountability for implementing the DTA Policy.
Our Use of Artificial Intelligence Tools Policy sets guidelines for when AI may be used and how to use it, including identifying user risks. The AIAC approves projects involving AI, considering ethical and privacy issues, monitors the use of AI tools post-implementation, and oversees the maintenance of our register of approved AI tools.
We require all staff to complete AI fundamentals training developed by the DTA.
Enquiries about how we use AI
For enquiries, please contact us at artificialintelligence@fwc.gov.au.
The Executive Director of Enabling Services is designated as the accountable official for our use of AI.
This statement was first published in February 2025, and will be reviewed at least annually, or when we make a significant change to our approach to AI as outlined above.
Last updated: 3 February 2026