Corporate Information
How we do it
We play an important role in promoting the integrity of the tax system. We aim to set a standard by ensuring information and documentation of our own operations is recorded and made publicly accessible.
The information below details a range of resources we publish to meet transparency standards or government requirements.
Freedom of information
The Freedom of Information Act 1982 requires us to publish:
- specified information on agency operations under the Information Publication Scheme (IPS)
- information accessed in response to FOI applications in a disclosure log.
We proactively publish information where possible.
When looking for information, we publish a list of documents that have been supplied under the FOI on our disclosure log. If you want to know more about how to request a FOI, read our how to request for information page.
Information publication scheme
Our Information Publication Scheme is the framework for proactively publishing information about our agency and operations. The documents are accessible on our publications search this website.
Read more about our IPS and the FOI processes on the Information access page.
More information or feedback you can email:
Our corporate plans and annual reports
Each year we publish an annual report which details the agency’s performance and key achievements during the most recent financial year. Details of our financial statements are set out in our annual reports published each year. Our most recent annual reports are available on the corporate plan and reports page.
Review reports
When we conduct reviews, we produce reports on the findings and recommendations. If the report contains recommendations for the Government, we provide a copy to the Minister to consider. The minister must make the report publicly available within 25 sitting days of the House of Representatives.
All other review reports are published by the Tax Ombudsman once it has been finalised.
Submissions to Government
We annually provide Parliament with the following documents:
- Tax Ombudsman file titles
- Tax Ombudsman’s contracts ($100 000 or more)
- Departmental and Agency Appointments (since 2011)
- Departmental and Agency Grants (since 2011).
Visit our senate order page, for more information on these submissions. We publish all submissions to Government in our publication search.
Our finances
Information regarding our legal expenditure and grants is located on our Senate orders page.
We are committed to continuous improvement in procurement practices and have published a Statement of Business Ethics for suppliers and our officers, which complements the Commonwealth Supplier Code of Conduct.
Details of our financial statements are set out in our annual reports published each year, which are available in our publication search.
Our emissions reduction plan
Read our emissions reduction plan. This was last reviewed in August 2024.
Our Artificial Intelligence Transparency statement
Read our AI Transparency statement. This was last reviewed in March 2026.
Public Interest Disclosures
The Taxation Ombudsman supports a culture where people can safely speak up about suspected wrongdoing. Learn more about Public Interest Disclosures.