Artificial Intelligence (AI) transparency statement
We also see AI as a tool for extending the Library's practices and supporting its statutory role of maintaining, developing and protecting a national collection for all Australians.
At a more granular level, AI technologies may help us identify new ways to collect, understand and share the collection while carefully considering privacy, copyright, Indigenous Cultural and Intellectual Property rights, Indigenous data sovereignty, inclusion, accessibility, digital collecting and cyber security risk.
Our approach to AI and emerging ways of presenting, interrogating and exploring knowledge necessitates careful deliberation. The Library's legal and statutory obligations cannot be compromised. That is why we will apply a principles-based AI framework (approved by our Accountable Authority, the Council of the National Library of Australia) that will see AI implemented only in service to our Corporate Plan and Digital Strategy, and aligned with our risk management framework.
We will deliver benefit to the public, partners and staff in a risk-managed, staged and ethical way, and will implement guardrails and governance across our organisation while acting in the public interest with our technology choices and ethical considerations.
How we use AI
The Library does not use AI for decision-making or high-risk use cases, nor does it replace human deliberation. While AI might be used in various tasks and workflows to provide insights, decisions are made by our staff, which ensures human oversight and accountability. Implementation of AI will include human review as part of building, deploying and operating.
Usage patterns
The Library deploys AI in the following ways:
- Workplace productivity: automates routine tasks, manages workflows and facilitates communication, such as document summarisation, spelling, grammar check and tone review, voice to text transcription and software coding assistance.
- Analytics for insights: used to identify, produce or understand insights within structured or unstructured materials via comprehensive data analysis, predictive modelling and/or reporting tools, such as cyber security monitoring or classification of data.
- Image processing: processes images to automatically identify patterns and objects (including Optical Character Recognition used in the digitisation of the collection).
Domain
Our AI applications focus on supporting corporate functions by automating processes, optimising resource allocation, improving operational efficiency and enhancing collection access, such as voice to text transcription and digitisation.
Monitoring and accountability
An AI Steering Committee will support the implementation of AI and help the Accountable Official align Library implementation with whole-of-government AI approaches. The Committee will include cross-Library senior representation for decision-making and risk management, and engagement with stakeholders regarding implications for collection management and use. The Committee's purpose is to safeguard accountability, assess opportunities and set guardrails. It will also assess, monitor and mitigate risk and ethics application throughout the AI lifecycle, ensuring line-of-sight to corporate risks.
Compliance
Our AI practices will comply with the mandatory requirements of the Australian Government's Policy for the Responsible Use of AI in Government. They will also comply with all applicable laws, relevant policies and guidelines, and include regular reviews, audits and continuous improvement processes.
Accountable official
The Chief Operating Officer is designated as the National Library's Accountable Official.
Contact
For questions about this statement or for further information on the Library's usage of AI, please contact us.
Review and updates
This AI Transparency Statement was published on 10 April 2026 and will be reviewed and updated annually and/or when significant changes occur.