Digital Transformation Agency policy(Opens in a new tab/window) for responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI) use sets mandatory requirements for the National Health Funding Body's accountable official and transparency statement.
AI transparency statement
The NHFB uses authorised AI tools (such as Anthropic’s Claude and Microsoft Copilot) on a limited basis, when undertaking routine internal administrative matters to maximise productivity, such as summarising internal policy information and producing Minutes of internal meetings.
The NHFB adopts a ‘best practice, fit-for-purpose for a small agency’ approach across all business activity, including using AI. The Department of Health, Disability and Ageing (Health) provides shared services to the NHFB, including IT services and related guidance. Health’s AI guidance specifies that only authorised AI tools may be introduced and used for approved use cases.
The NHFB continues to assess available AI tools to determine the benefits the technology provides while ensuring that our AI initiatives align with our values and are in the best interests of the public.
The NHFB is developing a strategic position on our AI adoption. The strategy will include the use of approved AI tools that enhance the quality and efficiency of our services to support our commitment to innovation and excellence.
The NHFB will also meet the Digital Transformation Agency’s (DTA) requirements under its Policy for the responsible use of AI in government. This includes having an AI use case register, AI impact assessments and clear guidance for staff about AI ethics principles.
In-scope
The NHFB is committed to the safe, ethical and responsible adoption and enhancement of AI capabilities to support our vision of improving the transparency of public hospital funding in Australia.
In accordance with the DTA’s classification system for AI in government, the NHFB may use AI as described below:
- Usage Patterns – this includes providing insights through analytics and enhancing workplace productivity. This allows our people to focus on more complex and meaningful work.
- Domains may include corporate and enabling, service delivery and data analysis to identify patterns or anomalies in data to support legislative compliance.
Examples of how we are applying AI in these domains include:
- Summarising reports, meeting minutes, and stakeholder feedback.
- Drafting documentation.
- Conducting general background research.
All outputs generated with the assistance of AI in the NHFB will be assessed by a person as an ongoing operation to provide meaningful assessment and oversight to ensure accuracy and reliability of outcomes.
Out-of-scope
One of the NHFB’s key priorities is to ensure the integrity of public hospital funding by identifying and analysing public hospital services to minimise duplicate payments made through other Commonwealth programs. This data is excluded from use in any AI capacity, until such time as AI tools are approved for this level of sensitive information.
Compliance with relevant legislation
As part of our adoption of AI technology, we are ensuring compliance with all relevant legislation:
- Archives Act 1983 (Cth)
- Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth)
- Privacy Act 1988 (Cth)
- NHFB’s Privacy Policy.
The NHFB will continue to evaluate, review or update our data governance requirements against the application of AI, to ensure our approach remains fit for purpose and in keeping with the provisions and the NHFB’s obligations under the National Health Reform (NHR) Act 2011.
Public interaction and impact
The NHFB does not utilise public facing AI applications that involve direct public interaction or significant public impact. This Statement will be updated if this changes.
Accountable Official
The NHFB’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer is appointed as the AI Accountable Official (AI AO).
The AI AO oversees AI use cases and ensures we comply with whole-of-government AI policies and ethical guidelines. The AI AO will review the NHFB’s AI Transparency Statement at least once a year and update it if we make any major changes to how we use AI, or if anything new needs to be included.
Contact us
Questions about this statement or the NHFB’s use of AI, please contact our AI Accountable Official via email:
Postal Address:
National Health Funding Body
Attn: AI Accountable Official
GPO Box 1252
CANBERRA ACT 2601
Email: nhfb.enquiries@nhfb.gov.au