Artificial Intelligence Transparency Statement
The Net Zero Economy Authority (NZEA) recognises the potential of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to enhance efficiency, improve decision-making, and service delivery.
The NZEA has aligned to the Digital Transformation Agency’s Policy for the responsible use of AI in government. The policy has mandatory requirements about accountable officials and transparency statements.
This statement details our implementation of the policy requirements.
Our approach to AI transparency
The NZEA’s AI policy sets out the principles we have adopted, informed by Australia’s AI Ethics Principles.
- Human, societal and environmental wellbeing: AI systems should benefit individuals, society and the environment.
- Human-centred values: AI systems should respect human rights, diversity, and the autonomy of individuals.
- Fairness: AI systems should be inclusive and accessible and should not involve or result in unfair discrimination against individuals, communities or groups.
- Privacy protection and security: AI systems should respect and uphold privacy rights and data protection and ensure the security of data.
- Reliability and safety: AI systems should reliably operate in accordance with their intended purpose.
- Transparency and explainability: There should be transparency and responsible disclosure so people can understand when they are being significantly impacted by AI and can find out when an AI system is engaging with them.
- Contestability: When an AI system significantly impacts a person, community, group or environment, there should be a timely process to allow people to challenge the use or outcomes of the AI system.
- Accountability: Human oversight of AI systems should be enabled.
How we use AI
The NZEA’s AI policy sets out the acceptable use of AI.
Across platforms and systems, AI must be used in a manner consistent with the APS Values, Code of Conduct and Employment Principles.
The NZEA measures AI usage against AI Usage Patterns as set out by the DTA. The NZEA’s implementation of AI is limited to web search, and an internal data and insights capability.
Staff review all AI tool outputs and treat them as drafts or starting points for further research, not for decision-making.
The NZEA provides guidance to staff, including training in AI fundamentals, to ensure an understanding of compliance and governance arrangements and requirements.
AI accountable official
Our Chief Information Officer is the accountable official responsible for carrying out the policy. The IT and Security team and the Executive Team support the accountable official.
Our commitment
The NZEA will continuously refine and enhance our AI capabilities. We do this by ensuring centralised oversight and evaluation of AI tools through the Accountable Official and Executive Team.
This statement will evolve to align with technology changes, legislation, policy and governance best practices. We will review at least every 12 months and update it if our AI approach changes, or if anything materially impacts its accuracy.
For further information on the NZEA’s AI governance and transparency please contact the NZEA at itservicedesk@nzea.gov.au.
Last updated: 10 July 2026