AI Transparency Statement
The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (Cth) follows the Digital Transformation Agency’s Policy for the responsible use of AI in government which sets out a whole of Australian Government Approach to use AI safely and responsibly while embracing the opportunities AI provides.
Accountable Official
The CDPP has an accountable official, the Chief Information Officer (CIO). It also has established an AI reference group working across the CDPP to prepare for, guide and monitor the use of AI.
CDPP’s approach to AI adoption and use
The CDPP is considering AI use cases being developed in other agencies as we see significant potential benefits from using AI to improve analysis, research and workplace productivity. On this basis, we will explore the development of our own AI use cases. We commit to using AI in a safe and responsible manner.
Currently the CDPP does not use AI in any services or advice we provide publicly or currently use AI internally.
If we do implement AI capability, we will update this statement to outline our use, with a summary of:
- the intentions behind why we are considering adoption
- classification of AI use according to required outcomes and AI system or tool
- classification of use where the public may directly interact with, or be significantly impacted by, AI without a human intermediary or intervention
- measures to monitor the effectiveness of deployed AI systems, such as governance or processes
- compliance with applicable legislation and regulation.
AI governance and oversight
The CDPP is dedicated to ongoing refinement and enhancement of our AI capabilities. We will be transparent as we engage and prepare, enable, adopt, monitor, review, evolve and integrate changes in AI technology, environment and policy requirements.
Data privacy and security
Protecting the privacy and security of individuals' data, sensitive and classified information is of paramount importance to us. We ensure that any data used in AI systems is handled in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), the Protective Security Policy Framework and other relevant data protection laws. Personal information is only collected, used, and shared where necessary, and in ways that comply with our privacy policies.
Contact information
If you have questions, concerns, or would like more information about how the office uses AI, please contact the CDPP’s accountable official for AI:
Email:
inquiries@cdpp.gov.au
Postal Address:
Commonwealth DPP
GPO Box 3104
CANBERRA ACT 2601
This statement was last updated on 25 February 2026 and will be updated as our approach to AI changes, and at least every 12 months.