Policy for the responsible use of AI in government – AI Transparency Statement
Last updated: 18 June 2026
Introduction
The Office of the Special Investigator (OSI) receives Information Technology (IT) services from the Attorney-General’s Department (AGD) and the Australian Federal Police (AFP) under shared services agreements. The use of artificial intelligence (AI) by the OSI is in line with the AI policies of AGD and the AFP.
AI classification
In accordance with the Digital Transformation Agency Standard for AI transparency statements, we classify our current and intended use of AI as follows:
- Usage patterns: our primary focus is on workplace productivity to facilitate communication, document summarisation and content creation.
- Domains: our AI application is situated within the corporate and enabling domain, supporting internal functions like HR, finance, communication and IT.
At this stage of adoption, the public does not directly interact with, nor is it significantly impacted by our AI systems or their outputs without human review.
Data privacy and security
Protecting the privacy and security of individuals' data, sensitive and classified information is of paramount importance to us. When using AI we will ensure that any data used is handled in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988, the Protective Security Policy Framework and other relevant data protection policy for the responsible use of AI in government.
AI governance and oversight
We have appointed an Accountable Official in accordance with Policy for the responsible use of AI in government. Oversight of any AI project will be done by governance bodies within the OSI.
Continuous improvement
The OSI will regularly review and update AI policies and practices in consultation with our shared services partners. This includes staying informed about new developments in AI technology, ethics, and regulatory policy for the responsible use of AI in government.
This statement will be reviewed annually, when we make a significant change to our approach to AI, or when new factors impact this statement.
AI training is available to all staff.
Contact information
If you have questions or would like more information, please contact us at:
- Contact us | Office of the Special Investigator
- Mailing Address: GPO Box 812 Canberra ACT 2601