Artificial Intelligence (AI) transparency statement
This statement is published in accordance with requirements set out in the Digital Transformation Agency’s (DTA) Policy for responsible use of AI in government.
Consistent with the DTA policy we have applied the following definition provided by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD):
“An AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions that can influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.”
Our approach to AI adoption and use
We are adopting and using AI in a way that enhances and supports our work while ensuring its safe, ethical, and responsible use. We are doing so within existing frameworks and legislation relevant to government’s use of AI including those relating to:
- data governance
- privacy
cyber security
the APS Values and Code of Conduct.
How we use AI
In accordance with the DTA Classification system for AI Use we may use AI as follows:
Usage patterns
- Analytics for insights – to identify, produce or understand insights within structured or unstructured materials via comprehensive data analysis, predictive modelling and/or reporting tools.
- Workplace Productivity – to automate routine tasks, manage workflows, and facilitate communication.
Domains
- Scientific – to process complex datasets, simulate experiments, predict outcomes, and enhance monitoring functions.
- Corporate and enabling – to support corporate functions by automating processes, optimising resource allocation, and improving operational efficiency.
- Policy and legal – to analyse policies and legal documents to provide advice and assurance on their impact and to support policy development that is consistent with existing laws.
We do not propose using AI where the public may directly interact with or be significantly impacted by it without a human intermediary or intervention.
In 2024 we participated in the Australian Government’s trials of a generative AI service, Microsoft 365 Copilot. We continue to make this available to all staff. We have also made a licensed version of ChatGPT available to a number of staff, primarily in research focussed areas.
Governance processes
We maintain an internal policy on the use of AI which applies to all Commissioners, staff, and contractors. It is consistent with, and supports, the provisions of DTA policy and guidance and will be reviewed and updated to ensure it remains so.
The policy specifies that only authorised AI tools may be introduced and used in our Data Technology (DT) environment. It also requires all AI users to be open and transparent about their use of AI. When submitting work for review or approval, users must, where applicable, describe the purpose(s) for which AI tools were used and confirm that all AI generated outputs relied upon have been carefully reviewed for accuracy, quality and appropriateness.
Completion of training in the appropriate use of AI is a prerequisite for access to AI tools used in the PC.
Compliance
We will only use AI in accordance with relevant legislation, frameworks and policies.
Accountable officials
The Assistant Commissioner, Corporate Group and the Director, Digital Technologies are designated as joint Accountable Officials.
Transparency statement
This transparency statement will be reviewed and updated if our approach to the use of AI changes significantly, and at least every twelve months.
Version history
Date Note
24 February 2025 Initial version
31 March 2026 Review and amended to align with updated DTA policy
Contact us
If you have any questions about this statement please contact ai@pc.gov.au.