Artificial Intelligence (AI) transparency statement
Adopting Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Adoption of AI at Professional Services Review (PSR) is consistent with its values of being fair, transparent and professional. Adoption is deliberate and measured to support AI use that is safe, ethical and responsible. PSR’s approach to adopting AI is in accordance with the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government and is influenced by opportunities to enhance workplace productivity. Adoption of AI respects Australia’s AI Ethics principles prioritising privacy protection and security.
Monitoring and accountability
PSR’s Executive Management Team (EMT) monitors the adoption of AI consistent with internal policies such as ‘Acceptable Use of ICT Resources’ which expressly prohibits PSR from using sensitive or personal information on public generative AI platforms as well as relevant government legislation, regulations, policies and official guidance including the Privacy Act 1988 and secrecy provisions of the Health Insurance Act 1973.
PSR’s Chief Information Governance and Security Officer (CIGSO), designated as the Accountable Officer (AO) for AI, is charged with implementing and compliance with the Policy for the responsible use of AI in government across PSR. The CIGSO leads the Information Governance Committee (IGC) which is responsible for coordinating the management of PSR’s information assets including AI and identifying emerging risks. The IGC regularly reports to PSR’s EMT. PSR’s General Manager (GM), a member of the EMT, is designated as the Chief Artificial Intelligence Officer (CAIO) in line with the Government’s AI Plan for the Australian Public Service - external site. The CAIO is responsible for driving AI adoption at PSR. The adoption of AI in PSR is supported by training.
How we use AI
PSR uses AI in ways that complement and improve operational efficiency while keeping a human in the loop. PSR is considering AI usage in a longer-term timeframe with specific regard to:
- further opportunities to automate internal business enabling processes and increase efficiency
- the use of AI for managing and viewing medical records, and how PSR processes and technologies need to adapt to take account of this during a review.
Usage Patterns
PSR uses AI for workplace productivity. Any content created using generative AI is to facilitate enhanced internal communications and in the performance of routine tasks.
PSR does not use AI for any of its statutory functions administering the PSR Scheme under Part VAA of the Health Insurance Act 1973 (the Act). The decision-makers at each stage of the PSR Scheme are experienced medical practitioners, who apply their knowledge and experience as health professionals to make highly complex and evaluative decisions.
Under Part VAA of the Health Insurance Act 1973, PSR’s administrative decision-makers may exercise discretionary power. PSR accepts the original view of the Administrative Review Council - external site (ARC), that automating discretion comes with a risk of improper and invalid exercise of power. While the Commonwealth Ombudsman - external site has more recently noted that automated systems may support discretionary decision making when properly designed and modeled, PSR remains of the view that the level of risk is such that it is not appropriate for decisions under the PSR Scheme to be made or influenced by automated systems including AI.
Domains
PSR currently applies its use of AI within Corporate and Enabling functions.
Review
This transparency statement was last updated in February 2026. It will be updated annually and following any event that may significantly influence PSR’s use of AI or materially impact the accuracy of this statement.
Contact
For further information about this statement or PSR’s usage of AI, please contact us.