CM. No. D25/8915
OFFICIAL
1
OFFICIAL

AI transparency statement

This statement provides details of how the Royal Australian Mint (the Mint) uses AI, as directed by the
Policy for Responsible use of AI in Government.
An officer has been identified who will be the point of contact for the implementation of the Policy for
Reasonable use of AI in Government at the Mint. The officer, and any other individuals participating in the
implementation of the Policy have received fundamentals training in AI as a minimum.
How the Mint uses AI
As per the classification system for AI use, the Mint uses AI in the following usage patterns and domains:
Usage patterns
• Workplace Productivity
• Image Processing
Domains
• Corporate and enabling
• Service Delivery
• Compliance and fraud detection
• Policy and legal
In the use of Image Processing, the Mint uses basic shape recognition for identifying humans. The Mint
does not identify individuals via facial recognition or any other biometric markers.
At this time, the Mint does not use AI in a way that members of the public may directly interact with, or be
significantly impacted by without human intervention. The Mint’s use of AI is for the development of
internal documentation, including research and drafting.
As a part of its commitment to responsible use of AI, including ensuring accountability for accuracy and
decision making, Mint employees review all AI outputs. This is known as Human-in-the-loop (HITL).
The Mint understands the use of AI must be based on Australia’s AI Ethics Principals:
• human, societal and environmental wellbeing
• human-centered values
• fairness
• privacy protection and security
• reliability and safety
• transparency and explainability
• contestability
• accountability.

OFFICIAL
Royal Australian Mint
AI transparency statement
Doc. No. D25/8915
OFFICIAL
2
The Mint is committed to applying the cyber security requirements outlined in the Australian Government
Information Security Manual (ISM) and the Protective Security Policy Framework (PSPF), using a risk-based
approach to ensure the secure operations of all AI applications.
The AI space is evolving, and as such the Mint will continue to monitor and evaluate its current and
potential future approach to AI use.
The Mint will ensure integration with the whole of government approach to AI adoption, participating in
AI forums and processes where applicable. To this end, this statement will be updated as required to
describe what AI will be used for, and what it will not be used for.
This review will be conducted annually, or when there is change to how AI is used at the Mint.

Controlled content information
Controlled by John Cock, CISO
Date of effect 25 March 2026
Approved by Emily Martin, CEO
Document no. D25/8915
CM container 25/347
Contact Melinda Hodges