--- Content from https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/terms ---

Effective March 23, 2026
To use Gemini API, Google AI Studio, and the other Google developer services that reference these terms (collectively, the "APIs" or "Services"), you must accept (1) the Google APIs Terms of Service (the "API Terms"), and (2) these Gemini API Additional Terms of Service (the "Additional Terms"). Terms that are not defined in these Additional Terms have the meanings given in the API Terms.
Age Requirements
You must be 18 years of age or older to use the APIs. You also will not use the Services as part of a website, application, or other service (collectively, "API Clients") that is directed towards or is likely to be accessed by individuals under the age of 18.
Use Restrictions
Use of Google AI Studio and Gemini API is for developers building with Google AI models for professional or business purposes, not for consumer use.
You may only access the Services (or make API Clients available to users) within an available region. You may use only Paid Services when making API Clients available to users in the European Economic Area, Switzerland, or the United Kingdom.
You may not use the Services to develop models that compete with the Services (e.g., Gemini API or Google AI Studio). You also may not attempt to reverse engineer, extract or replicate any component of the Services, including the underlying data or models (e.g., parameter weights).
In addition to the "API Prohibitions" section in the API Terms, you must comply with our Prohibited Use Policy, which provides additional details about appropriate conduct when using the Services.
The Services include safety features to block harmful content, such as content that violates our Prohibited Use Policy. You may not attempt to bypass these protective measures or use content that violates the API Terms or these Additional Terms. You are responsible for determining the necessary and appropriate safety settings and factuality tools for your use case. Applications with less restrictive safety settings may be subject to Google's review and approval.
You may not use the Services in clinical practice, to provide medical advice, or in any manner that is overseen by or requires clearance or approval from a medical device regulatory agency.
Use of Generated Content
Some of our Services allow you to generate original content. Google won't claim ownership over that content. You acknowledge that Google may generate the same or similar content for others and that we reserve all rights to do so.
As required by the API Terms, you'll comply with applicable law in using generated content, which may require the provision of attribution to your users when returned as part of an API call. Use discretion before relying on generated content, including code. You're responsible for your use of generated content, and for the use of that content by anyone you share it with.
Unpaid Services
Any Services that are offered free of charge like direct interactions with Google AI Studio or unpaid quota in Gemini API are unpaid Services (the "Unpaid Services").
How Google Uses Your Data
When you use Unpaid Services, including, for example, Google AI Studio and the unpaid quota on Gemini API, Google uses the content you submit to the Services and any generated responses to provide, improve, and develop Google products and services and machine learning technologies, including Google's enterprise features, products, and services, consistent with our Privacy Policy.
To help with quality and improve our products, human reviewers may read, annotate, and process your API input and output. Google takes steps to protect your privacy as part of this process. This includes disconnecting this data from your Google Account, API key, and Cloud project before reviewers see or annotate it. Do not submit sensitive, confidential, or personal information to the Unpaid Services.
The license you grant to Google under the "Submission of Content" section in the API Terms also extends, to the extent required under applicable law for our use, to any content (e.g., prompts, including associated system instructions, cached content, and files such as images, videos, or documents) you submit to the Services and to any generated responses.
Google only uses content that you import or upload to our model tuning feature for that express purpose. Tuning content may be retained in connection with your tuned models for purposes of re-tuning when supported models change. When you delete a tuned model, the related tuning content is also deleted.
If you're in the European Economic Area, Switzerland, or the United Kingdom, the terms under "How Google uses Your Data" in "Paid Services" apply to all Services, including Google AI Studio and unpaid quota in the Gemini API, even though they are offered free of charge.
Paid Services
When a Service is being offered for a fee, it is considered to be a paid Service (the "Paid Services"). Your access to Google AI Studio is a "Paid Service" even when it is offered free of charge, as long as the account you are using to access Google AI Studio has access to a Cloud Project with an associated and active Cloud Billing account or is a Workspace enterprise account. Your access to Gemini API is a "Paid Service" only when accessing the API through a Cloud Project associated with an active billing account.
For Paid Services, "Google" as used in these Terms has the meaning given here.
How Google Uses Your Data
When you use Paid Services, including, for example, the paid quota of the Gemini API, Google doesn't use your prompts (including associated system instructions, cached content, and files such as images, videos, or documents) or responses to improve our products, and will process your prompts and responses in accordance with the Data Processing Addendum for Products Where Google is a Data Processor. For Paid Services, Google logs prompts and responses for a limited period of time, solely for detecting and preventing violations of the Prohibited Use Policy to maintain the safety and security of the Services, and any required legal or regulatory disclosures. This data may be stored transiently or cached in any country in which Google or its agents maintain facilities.
Other data we collect while providing the Paid Services to you, such as account information and settings, billing history, direct communications and feedback, and usage details (e.g., information about usage including token count per prompt and response, operational status, safety filter triggers, software errors and crash reports, authentication details, quality and performance metrics, and other technical details necessary for Google to operate and maintain Services, which may include device identifiers, identifiers from cookies or tokens, and IP addresses) remains subject to the Google Controller-Controller Data Protection Terms and Google Privacy Policy referenced in the API Terms.
When using Grounding with Google Search, additional data is collected and used, as detailed in the "Grounding with Google Search" section below.
Payment Terms
Billing and payments for Paid Services are handled by Cloud Billing in the Google Cloud Platform.
As such, while these Terms govern your use of the Paid Services, the following sections of the Google Cloud Terms of Service as applicable to the Google Cloud Platform (or "GCP Services" as defined in the Google Cloud Terms of Service), will govern payments, invoicing, billing, payment disputes, and related issues pertaining to the Paid Services, as if the Paid Services were GCP Services for purposes of those sections:
- Section 2 (Payment Terms);
- Section 14 (Miscellaneous);
- Section 15 (Regional Modifications), as applicable to:
- Governing Law and Dispute Resolution;
- Payment, Taxes, and Invoice Disputes;
- Currency Conversion; and
- Other Regional Modifications; and
- the Pricing and Billing Terms of the Service Specific Terms at https://cloud.google.com/terms/service-terms, including the Supplemental Paid Credit Terms at https://cloud.google.com/terms/supplemental-paid-credit (the "Supplemental Paid Credit Terms").
"Fees" (as used in the Google Cloud Terms of Service) for Paid Services are as specified on our pricing page. Google may make changes to this pricing from time to time, effective 30 days after they are posted unless otherwise specified (or in the case of new Paid Services, where pricing takes effect immediately unless otherwise specified). Your continued use of the Paid Services constitutes your consent to those changes.
For clarity, these Terms do not govern your direct use of any Google Cloud Platform service (including those listed on the Google Cloud Services Summary).
Agentic Services
When using agentic services, including the Computer Use API, you are solely responsible for the actions and tasks performed by the service, such as determining whether the service is appropriate for your use case, authorizing the service's access and connection to data, applications, and systems, and exercising judgment and supervision when and if the service is used in production environments. You will not automatically bypass any requests for human confirmation.
Grounding with Google Search
"Grounding with Google Search" is a Service that provides Grounded Results and Search Suggestions and can be used through Google AI Studio (as an Unpaid Service), and via Gemini API as a (Paid Service). "Grounded Results" mean responses that Google generates using the prompt from the end user (or from you, when using function calling), contextual information that you may provide (as applicable), and results from Google's search engine. "Search Suggestions" mean search suggestions that Google provides with the Grounded Results. If a Grounded Result is clicked on, separate terms (not these terms) govern the destination page. If a Search Suggestion is clicked on the Google Terms of Service govern the google.com destination page. "Links" are any other means to fetch web pages (including hyperlinks and URLs), which may be contained in a Grounded Result or Search Suggestion. Links also include titles or labels provided with those means to fetch web pages. Excluding your web domain(s), you will not assert ownership rights in any intellectual property in Search Suggestions or Links in Grounded Results.
Use Restrictions
- You will only use Grounding with Google Search in an application that is owned and operated by you and will only display the Grounded Results with the associated Search Suggestion(s) to the end user who submitted the prompt.
- You will not, and will not allow your end user or any third party to, cache, frame, syndicate, resell, analyze, train on, or otherwise learn from Grounded Results or Search Suggestions. For clarity, Grounded Results, Search Suggestions, and Links are intended to be used in combination to respond to a given end user prompt and it is a violation of these terms to use Grounding with Google Search to extract or collect one or more of these components for another purpose (for example, using programmatic or automated means to collect Links, using Links to build an index, or using Links to identify destination pages for crawling or scraping).
- You will not, and will not allow your end user or any third party to, copy, store,
or implement any click tracking, Link-tracking or other monitoring of Grounded
Results or Search Suggestions, except that:
- You may copy and store, for up to two (2) years, the text of the Grounded Result(s): (1) that were displayed by you only to evaluate and optimize the display of the Grounded Results in your application; (2) in chat history of an end user of your application only for the purpose of allowing that end user to view their chat history; and (3) temporarily for the purpose of resubmitting the text of the Grounded Result in a subsequent prompt that you submit to Google via a function call to obtain a refined or improved Grounded Result to display to the end user, as long as the developer: (i) does not use the interim Grounded Results for any other purpose; (ii) deletes any Grounded Result that is not displayed to the end user once the final Grounded Result is generated; and (iii) displays any associated Search Suggestions or other Links (as applicable) with the final Grounded Result (up to a maximum of 5 Search Suggestions) to the end user.
- You may copy and store the Grounded Result and Search Suggestions solely for the purpose of and for the minimum time necessary to comply with applicable law or regulations.
- You may allow end user(s) to copy and store individual Grounded Results that were displayed to them through your application as long as you do not allow Grounded Results to be accessed or collected by automated or programmatic means or to be used to create a database.
- You may monitor end user interactions with your application interface; however, you will not track whether those interactions were specifically with a given Search Suggestion or Grounded Result (in each case, in whole or in part, including any specific Link).
- Unless permitted by Google in writing, you: (1) will not modify, or intersperse any other content with, the Grounded Results or Search Suggestions; and (2) will not place any interstitial content between any Link or Search Suggestions and the associated destination page, redirect end users away from the destination pages, or minimize, remove, or otherwise inhibit the full and complete display of any destination page.
Data Collection and How Google Uses Your Data
In addition to the general terms above ("How Google Uses Your Data" under "Unpaid Services" and "Paid Services"), when using Grounding with Google Search, Google will store prompts, contextual information that you may provide, and output for thirty (30) days for the purposes of creating Grounded Results and Search Suggestions and the stored information can be used for debugging and testing of systems that support Grounding with Google Search. When using Grounding with Google Search via paid quota of Gemini API, this processing for debugging and testing of systems is in accordance with the Data Processing Addendum for Products Where Google is a Data Processor.
This subsection "Grounding with Google Search" will survive termination of the Agreement, as applicable.
The Client Application Guidelines apply to your use of Grounding with Google Search. For purposes of the Client Application Guidelines, your applications that are using Grounding with Google Search are considered Approved Applications.
Grounding with Google Maps
"Grounding with Google Maps" is a Service that provides Google Maps Grounded Results as a feature of Gemini API. "Google Maps Grounded Results" mean responses that Google generates using Google Maps Data in response to an end user initiated prompt. "Google Maps Data" means the content originating from Google Maps in the Google Maps Grounded Results, including in the output text, in the metadata of the Google Maps Grounded Results, in the Google Maps Links, and content accessed through Google Maps Links. "Google Maps Links" mean the URLs that Google provides in a Google Maps Grounded Result and any titles or labels provided with those URLs. If Google Maps Links are clicked on, these separate Google Maps End User Terms and the Google Privacy Policy govern the destination page. Google Maps Data in the text of a Google Maps Grounded Result will be identified via the Google Maps Links. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement, Google and its content providers retain all rights to Google Maps Data.
Use restrictions
You will only use Grounding with Google Maps in an application that is owned and operated by you and will only use Grounding with Google Maps to display the Google Maps Grounded Results with the associated Google Maps Links to the end user who initiated the prompt. An end user is an individual you permit to use your application.
You will not modify the Google Maps Grounded Result or intersperse any other content with the Google Maps Grounded Result, place any interstitial content between the text of the Google Maps Grounded Result and the Google Maps Links or the Google Maps Links and the associated destination page, or redirect end users away from the destination pages or minimize, remove, or otherwise inhibit the full and complete display of any destination page.
You will comply with the Documentation for Grounding with Google Maps.
You will not, and will not allow your end users or any third party to:
cache or store Google Maps Grounded Results except that you may cache or store Google Maps Grounded Results:
for up to ninety (90) days, only to evaluate and optimize the display of the Google Maps Grounded Results for your application; or,
in the chat history of an end user in your application for up to six (6) months for the purpose of allowing that end user to view their chat history or to maintain prior conversation context for that end user within your application (Section 4 (a) overrides any cache header);
scrape or export any Google Maps Data;
train on any Google Maps Data; or
distribute or market any Customer Applications in any Prohibited Territory as defined in the Documentation.
Data Collection and How Google Uses Your Data
You acknowledge that it is reasonably necessary for Google to store prompts, contextual information that you may provide, and generated content for thirty (30) days for the purposes of creating Google Maps Grounded Results, and since such information is being stored, you instruct Google that the stored information can be used for debugging and testing of systems that support Grounding with Google Maps. When using Grounding with Google Maps via paid quota of Gemini API, this processing for debugging and testing of systems is in accordance with the Data Processing Addendum for Products Where Google is a Data Processor.
This subsection "Grounding with Google Maps" will survive termination of the Agreement, as applicable.
Hardware Safety
The following additional terms apply to models that can be used to control robots or other robotic hardware ("Robotics Models").
You acknowledge and agree that the Robotics Models have not been tested with all makes and models of robotics hardware, and therefore, that the performance and safety of the Robotics Models in connection with your hardware is not guaranteed or provided with a warranty of any kind. You therefore agree to operate any hardware or other products that you may use in connection with the Robotics Models in a safe manner, and completely at your own risk. The Robotics Models may act in an unpredictable or unexpected manner when used in connection with robotics hardware. You therefore agree to use discretion before using the Robotics Models in a production, commercial, or public environment, and to not use the Robotics Models for safety-critical applications or work, such as in the following settings: (i) healthcare, (ii) transportation, or (iii) other areas where safety protocols are vital, and a malfunction could reasonably foreseeably lead to death, personal injury, or property damage.
Disclaimers
The Services include experimental technology and may sometimes provide inaccurate or offensive content that doesn't represent Google's views.
Use discretion before relying on, publishing, or otherwise using content provided by the Services.
Don't rely on the Services for medical, mental health, legal, financial, or other professional advice. Any content regarding those topics is provided for informational purposes only, does not constitute medical diagnosis or treatment, and is not a substitute for advice from a qualified professional.

--- Content from https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/usage-policies ---

Google is committed to the responsible development and use of AI. To ensure the safety and integrity of the Gemini API, we have created these policy guidelines. By using the Gemini API, you agree to the following guidelines, the Gemini API Additional Terms of Service and Generative AI Prohibited Use Policy.
How We Monitor for Misuse
Google's Trust and Safety Team employs a combination of automated and manual processes to detect potential misuse of the Gemini API and Google AI Studio in order to enforce our policies.
- Automated Detection: Automated systems scan API usage for violations of our Prohibited Use Policy, such as hate speech, harassment, sexually explicit content, and dangerous content.
- Manual Detection: If a project consistently exhibits suspicious activity, it may be flagged for manual review by authorized Google personnel.
How We Handle Data
Google retains the following data for fifty-five (55) days for the purposes of detecting and preventing violations of the Prohibited Use Policy to maintain the safety and security of the Services, and any required legal or regulatory disclosures:
- Prompts: The text prompts you submit to the API.
- Contextual Information: Any additional context you provide with your prompts.
- Output: The responses generated by the Gemini API.
How We Investigate Potential Issues
When prompts or model outputs are flagged by safety filters and abuse detection systems described above, authorized Google employees may assess the flagged content, and either confirm or correct the classification or determination based on predefined guidelines and policies. Data can be accessed for human review only by authorized Google employees via an internal governance assessment and review management platform. When data is logged for abuse monitoring, it is used solely for the purpose of policy enforcement and preventing policy violations. It is not used to train or fine-tune any AI/ML models besides those used specifically for policy enforcement.
Working with You on Policy Compliance
If your use of Gemini doesn't align with our policies, we may take the following steps:
- Get in touch: We may reach out to you through email to understand your use case and explore ways to bring your usage into compliance.
- Temporary usage limits: We may limit your access to the Gemini API by adjusting rate limits or changing which model answers a specific request, for example.
- Temporary suspension: We may temporarily pause your access to the Gemini API.
- Account closure: As a last resort, and for serious violations, we may permanently close your access to the Gemini API and other Google services.
If we reach out to you regarding a suspension or account closure, we will also provide a link where you can appeal.
Scope
These policy guidelines apply to the use of the Gemini API and AI Studio.

--- Content from https://policies.google.com/terms/generative-ai/use-policy ---

Generative AI Prohibited Use Policy
Last Modified: December 17, 2024
Generative AI models can help you explore, learn, and create. We expect you to engage with them in a responsible, legal, and safe manner. The following restrictions apply to your interactions with generative AI in the Google products and services that refer to this policy.
- Do not engage in dangerous or illegal activities, or otherwise violate applicable law or regulations. This includes generating or distributing content that:
- Relates to child sexual abuse or exploitation.
- Facilitates violent extremism or terrorism.
- Facilitates non-consensual intimate imagery.
- Facilitates self-harm.
- Facilitates illegal activities or violations of law -- for example, providing instructions for synthesizing or accessing illegal or regulated substances, goods, or services.
- Violates the rights of others, including privacy and intellectual property rights -- for example, using personal data or biometrics without legally-required consent.
- Tracks or monitors people without their consent.
- Makes automated decisions that have a material detrimental impact on individual rights without human supervision in high-risk domains -- for example, in employment, healthcare, finance, legal, housing, insurance, or social welfare.
- Do not compromise the security of others’ or Google’s services. This includes generating or distributing content that facilitates:
- Spam, phishing, or malware.
- Abuse of, harm to, interference with, or disruption to Google’s or others’ infrastructure or services.
- Circumvention of abuse protections or safety filters -- for example, manipulating the model to contravene our policies.
- Do not engage in sexually explicit, violent, hateful, or harmful activities. This includes generating or distributing content that facilitates:
- Hatred or hate speech.
- Harassment, bullying, intimidation, abuse, or the insulting of others.
- Violence or the incitement of violence.
- Sexually explicit content -- for example, content created for the purpose of pornography or sexual gratification.
- Do not engage in misinformation, misrepresentation, or misleading activities. This includes:
- Frauds, scams, or other deceptive actions.
- Impersonating an individual (living or dead) without explicit disclosure, in order to deceive.
- Facilitating misleading claims of expertise or capability in sensitive areas -- for example in health, finance, government services, or the law, in order to deceive.
- Facilitating misleading claims related to governmental or democratic processes or harmful health practices, in order to deceive.
- Misrepresenting the provenance of generated content by claiming it was created solely by a human, in order to deceive.
We may make exceptions to these policies based on educational, documentary, scientific, or artistic considerations, or where harms are outweighed by substantial benefits to the public.

--- Content from https://cloud.google.com/vertex-ai/generative-ai/docs/data-governance ---

Google was the first in the industry to publish an AI/ML Privacy Commitment, which outlines our belief that customers should have the highest level of security and control over their data that is stored in the cloud. That commitment extends to Google Cloud's generative AI products. Google ensures that its teams are following these commitments through robust data governance practices, which include reviews of the data that Google Cloud uses in the development of its products. More details about how Google processes data can also be found in Google's Cloud Data Processing Addendum (CDPA).
Training restriction
As outlined in "Training Restriction" in the Service Terms section of the Service Specific Terms, Google won't use your data to train or fine-tune any AI/ML models without your prior permission or instruction. This applies to all managed models on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, including GA and pre-GA models.
Customer data retention and achieving zero data retention
Customer data is retained in Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform for Models as a Service (MaaS) for limited periods of time in the following scenarios and conditions. To achieve zero data retention, customers must take specific actions within each of these areas:
Prompt logging for abuse monitoring for Google models: As outlined in Section 4.3 "Generative AI Safety and Abuse" of Google Cloud Platform Terms of Service, Google may log prompts to detect potential abuse and violations of its Acceptable Use Policy and Prohibited Use Policy as part of providing generative AI services to customers. Only customers whose use of Google Cloud is governed by the Google Cloud Platform Terms of Service are subject to prompt logging for abuse monitoring. If you are in scope for prompt logging for abuse monitoring and want zero data retention, you can request an exception for abuse monitoring. See Abuse monitoring.
Prompt and response logging for abuse monitoring for Advanced AI models: Certain models or features may also be subject to additional prompt and response logging to prevent abuse, as described in the Advanced AI Safety Addendum. Zero data retention may not be possible when using some Advanced AI features. Please contact your account team for clarification. See Abuse monitoring for more information.
Grounding with Google Search: As outlined in Section 20 "Generative AI Services: Grounding with Google Search" of the Service Specific Terms, Google collects and stores logs, which contains the following Customer Data: queries derived from End User prompts and contextual information that Customer may provide along with the prompts that are not associated with any Customer or its End Users for up to three (3) days, this stored information may be used for debugging of systems that support Grounding with Google Search. There is no way to disable the storage of this information if you use Grounding with Google Search. If you require zero data retention, we recommend using Web Grounding for Enterprise.
Grounding with Google Maps: As outlined in Section 20 "Generative AI Services: Grounding with Google Maps" of the Service Specific Terms, Google stores prompts and contextual information that customers may provide, and generated output for thirty (30) days for the purposes of creating grounded results, and this stored information may only be used for reliability engineering, such as debugging in case of service issues, of systems that support grounding with Google Maps. There is no way to disable the storage of this information if you use Grounding with Google Maps.
Request-response logging: This feature is disabled by default. It can be enabled using a configuration setting on a per-model, per-project basis. Enabling this logging causes certain requests and responses to the specified model to be written to a designated BigQuery table. To achieve zero data retention, do not enable this feature. For more information about this feature, including how to enable or disable it, or read the current configuration setting, see Log requests and responses.
Interactions API: When using the Interactions API with
store = true
, Google stores user data (such as prompts, responses, and conversation state) to enable multi-turn conversations and later retrieval. If you do not specify a value forstore
, it defaults totrue
for all models. To achieve zero data retention, explicitly setstore = false
in your API requests.
This applies to all managed models on Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform, including GA and pre-GA models.
Agent products
To achieve zero data retention for agent products, customers must adhere to the following conditions and retention schedules for each product:
CodeMender session data — To enable resumption of long-running find and fix scans, CodeMender stores session state in Spanner. While a scan is in progress, session data — including target source code snippets, diffs, configuration, and analysis checkpoints — is stored encrypted for up to seven (7) days from session creation. When a session reaches a terminal state, source code and related content are cleared within seconds; the remaining session record is deleted automatically at the seven-day TTL. Customers can delete a session (removing all associated data) before the TTL expires.
Agent Platform Sandbox Snapshots: If you use the Snapshot API to persist Sandbox state, these snapshots are stored only for the duration of the Sandbox TTL. To achieve zero-data-retention, don't use the Sandbox API.
Google models
To achieve zero data retention for Google trained models, customers must take additional specific actions within each of these areas:
Session resumption for Gemini Live API
Session resumption for Gemini Live API is disabled by default. It must be enabled by the user every time they call the API by specifying the field in the API request, and project-level privacy is enforced for cached data. Enabling Session Resumption allows the user to reconnect to a previous session within 24 hours by storing cached data, including text, video, and audio prompt data and model outputs, for up to 24 hours. To achieve zero data retention, do not enable this feature. For more information about this feature, including how to enable it, see Gemini Live API.
In-memory data caching
By default, Google's published Gemini models cache Customer Data (inputs, outputs, and derived data) in-memory to reduce latency and accelerate responses. This data is stored only in-memory (not at-rest), is isolated at the project level, and has a 24-hour TTL. Cached data is used only for improving service performance and adheres to all Data Residency requirements for the selected location and does not violate zero data retention. This feature can be disabled at the project level.
Enabling and disabling data caching
You can use the following curl commands to get caching status, disable caching, or re-enable caching. When you disable or re-enable caching, the change applies to all Google Cloud regions. For more information about using Identity and Access Management to grant permissions required to enable or disable caching, see Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform access control with IAM. Expand the following sections to learn how to get the current cache setting, to disable caching, and to enable caching.
Get current caching setting
Run the following command to determine if caching is enabled or turned off for a
project. To run this command, a user must be granted one of the following
roles: roles/aiplatform.viewer
, roles/aiplatform.user
, or
roles/aiplatform.admin
.
PROJECT_ID=PROJECT_ID # Setup project_id $ gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID # GetCacheConfig $ curl -X GET \ -H "Authorization: Bearer $(gcloud auth application-default print-access-token)" \ -H "Content-Type: application/json" \ https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig # Response if caching is enabled (caching is enabled by default). { "name": "projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig" } # Response if caching is turned off. { "name": "projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig" "disableCache": true }
Turn off caching
Run the following curl command to disable caching for a Google Cloud project. To run
this command, a user must be granted the Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform administrator role,
roles/aiplatform.admin
.
PROJECT_ID=PROJECT_ID # Setup project_id $ gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID # Setup project_id. $ gcloud config set project ${PROJECT_ID} # Opt-out of caching. $ curl -X PATCH \ -H "Authorization: Bearer $(gcloud auth application-default print-access-token)" \ -H "Content-Type: application/json" \ https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig \ -d '{ "name": "projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig", "disableCache": true }' # Response. { "name": "projects/PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig/operations/${OPERATION_ID}", "done": true, "response": { "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.protobuf.Empty" } }
Enable caching
If you disabled caching for a Google Cloud project and want re-enable it, run the
following curl command. To run this command, a user must be granted the
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform administrator role, roles/aiplatform.admin
.
PROJECT_ID=PROJECT_ID LOCATION_ID="us-central1" # Setup project_id $ gcloud config set project PROJECT_ID # Setup project_id. $ gcloud config set project ${PROJECT_ID} # Opt in to caching. $ curl -X PATCH -H "Authorization: Bearer $(gcloud auth application-default print-access-token)" -H "Content-Type: application/json" https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig -d '{ "name": "projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig", "disableCache": false }' # Response. { "name": "projects/PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/projects/PROJECT_ID/cacheConfig/operations/${OPERATION_NUMBER}", "done": true, "response": { "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.protobuf.Empty" } }
What's next
Responsible AI
Learn about some of the limitations to generative AI and recommended practices for using generative AI.
How Gemini for Google Cloud uses your data
Learn how Gemini for Google Cloud conforms to Google's privacy commitment with generative AI technologies.

--- Content from https://support.google.com/a/answer/15706919?hl=en ---

Last updated: August 14, 2026
Google Workspace has long shared robust privacy commitments to protect user data and prioritize privacy. Generative AI doesn't change these commitments — it reaffirms their importance. This article is intended to help our business, education, and public sector customers understand how we use their data and keep it secure when using Google Workspace with Gemini.
What does this Privacy Hub cover?
This Generative AI for Google Workspace Privacy Hub covers:
- Gemini in Workspace—including apps like Gmail, Docs, Drive, and Meet
- Gemini app—Including gemini.google.com, Gemini in mobile apps, and Gemini in Chrome
- Gemini Notebook (formerly known as NotebookLM)
Throughout this Privacy Hub, we'll refer to Gemini in Workspace and the Gemini app as Gemini. Any differences between the two will be clearly identified. For clarity this Privacy Hub only applies when you are using Gemini and Gemini Notebook with a qualifying edition of Google Workspace; Gemini for Education—a version of the Gemini app built for education institutions—or Gemini Notebook with Google Workspace for Education.
Your privacy is our priority
We want to be completely clear that generative AI does not change our foundational privacy protections that give you choice and control over your data:
- Your interactions with Gemini stay within your organization. Gemini does not share your content outside your organization without your permission.
- Your existing Google Workspace protections are automatically applied. Gemini brings the same enterprise-grade security as the rest of Google Workspace.
- Your content is not used for any other customers. Your content is not human reviewed or otherwise used for Generative AI model training outside your domain without permission.
Summary of Gemini Privacy & Security Controls
| Gemini DOES NOT | Gemini DOES | |
|---|---|---|
| Data access | ✖ Access Workspace content that you don't have permission to access | ✅ Access relevant Workspace content based on your prompt and that you have permission to access |
| Data use | ✖ Use your prompt, Workspace content, webpage context, or generated responses to train generative AI models without your permission | ✅ Use your prompt, relevant Workspace content, and webpage context to generate a response |
| Data protection | ✖ Share your prompt or the generated response with other users or organizations | ✅ Automatically apply your existing data protection controls when you insert the generated response into your email or document |
Gemini data retention
| Product | Data type | Retention period | User controls |
|---|---|---|---|
|
Gemini in Workspace |
Prompts and responses |
90 days to indefinite, as determined by admins |
Users can manually delete conversations unless prohibited by Admins |
|
Inserted or generated content in Docs, Gmail, etc. |
Follows the Cloud Data Processing Addendum, Section 6. Data Deletion |
Admins can manage retention for Workspace data using Vault. Learn more about supported services and data types Users can manually delete data within Workspace apps |
|
|
Gemini app |
Prompts and responses |
Up to 36 months, as determined by admins |
Admins can control whether conversations with Gemini are saved and for how long before they are automatically deleted |
|
Gemini Notebook |
Prompts and responses |
Not retained after session ends |
None |
|
Uploaded files and user-created notebooks |
Follows the Cloud Data Processing Addendum, Section 6. Data Deletion |
Users can manually delete uploaded files and Notebooks or export them using Google Takeout |
Questions
We understand that you may have questions about Gemini and how your data is processed. Below are the most frequently asked questions we receive from our customers. If you have a question that isn't answered below, send us feedback using the link at the top of this page.
Data access and privacy
Does Gemini have access to my customer data?
Gemini abides by your organization's existing controls and data handling practices. Gemini accesses customer data in order to provide personalized responses, such as summarizing a document in Google Docs or analyzing data in a Google Sheet.
Data stored by the customer through use of Google Workspace services is considered customer data as defined by the Cloud Data Processing Addendum (CDPA) and, as such, is governed by the data processing terms set out in the CDPA. Google only accesses and processes customer data in accordance with customer instruction as set out in the CDPA.
How does Gemini process user prompts?
You can find more information about how we process user prompts in The life of a prompt: Demystifying Gemini. Below is a depiction of the workflow of a user prompt.
How long are prompts saved?
Gemini in Workspace provides a continuous, secure experience in the side panel across Docs, Sheets, Slides, Drive, Gmail, and Meet.
- Gemini in Workspace maintains a conversation history in the side panel, allowing you to resume previous discussions and access past prompts across sessions.
- History is contained within the specific app where the interaction occurred. For example, your Gemini history in Google Docs is separate from your history in Gmail.
- Your conversations are visible only to you. Even in shared files or folders, other collaborators cannot see your prompts or Gemini's responses.
- Flexible retention: Admins have control over conversation history for their organization. Administrators can choose to:
- Allow users to delete individual conversations (manual deletion by users is enabled by default)
- Set automated retention periods based on inactive conversations (such as 3 months, 18 months, or 3 years), or retain conversations indefinitely for the organization
The Gemini app enables admins to manage whether Gemini conversations are saved and for how long before they're automatically deleted. When Gemini conversation history is off, new chats are saved in user accounts for up to 72 hours so Google can provide the service and process any user feedback. This activity doesn't appear in Gemini Apps Activity. When conversation history is on, new chats are saved in user accounts until they are auto-deleted according to the auto delete control. Admins can choose to automatically delete conversations after 3, 18, or 36 months. The default is 18 months.
How will Gemini handle and protect my sensitive data and information?
When Google Workspace business, education, and public sector customers use Gemini features, they get the same robust data protection and security standards that come with all Google Workspace services:
- Your interactions with Gemini stay within your organization. Gemini does not share your data outside your organization without your permission.
- Gemini brings the same enterprise-grade security as the rest of Google Workspace, automatically applying your organization's existing controls and data handling practices.
- Your content is not used for any other customers. None of your content is used for generative AI model training outside of your domain without permission.
You can learn more here:
How is Gemini able to personalize answers while keeping my organization's data private?
Learn more about how Workspace Intelligence provides contextual AI in a secure, governed, and compliant manner.
How does Google ensure confidential information is not leaked across different practices in my organization?
The strict data access control model for Gemini does not allow for inputs or session content to leak across user boundaries. The model is structured to only present data from a session to that individual user. Thus, information is not only kept private within an organization, it is also kept private between users within an organization subject to the built-in Workspace access control for shared files. Client-side encryption (CSE) can restrict Gemini's access to sensitive data, because no Google system or Google employee have the technical means to access CSE content, so it can be leveraged to accomplish the same goal.
How is confidential information entered in prompts prevented from resurfacing outside my organization and to my competitors?
The prompts that a user enters when interacting with features available in Gemini are not used beyond the context of the user trust boundary. Prompt content is not used for training generative AI models outside of your domain without your permission.
How can I prevent sensitive data entered into prompts from being leaked outside my organization? Do Workspace Data Loss Prevention (DLP) capabilities apply to interactions with Gemini?
The content entered in Gemini prompts stays within your organization. Additionally, for supported Workspace editions, existing DLP control will continue to apply to generated output from Gemini that is inserted into Workspace services covered by DLP (for example emails, shared Drive files, and Docs). Ultimately no content is shared unless a user in your organization explicitly does so.
How can I restrict Gemini from accessing sensitive data such as HR or financial documents in Google Drive?
Gemini only retrieves relevant content in Workspace that the user has access to in order to contextualize the prompt and ground responses. If the user doesn't have access to a document or email, Gemini will not retrieve that content. Content restrictions, such as Information Rights Management (disable download, copy, or print) and Client-side encryption, can also help restrict Gemini's access to sensitive data.
You can leverage built-in AI classification or DLP capabilities in Workspace to identify sensitive data, automatically apply classification labels, and enforce Information Rights Management (IRM) controls based on the classification labels to restrict Gemini from accessing sensitive data for the users under the IRM restriction. For example, if a user isn't allowed to download, print, or copy files based on the IRM policy, Gemini will not retrieve those files or their content on the user's behalf. In addition, generated output inserted into emails in Gmail or documents in Drive are automatically evaluated against in-scope DLP policies set by domain administrators.
Model training and data usage
Does Google use my data (including prompts) to train generative AI models?
No. User prompts are considered customer data under the Cloud Data Processing Addendum. Workspace does not use customer data for training models without customer's prior permission or instruction. This commitment is outlined in the 'Training Restriction' section of the Google Workspace Service Specific Terms.
At Google, we take our contractual commitments to customers very seriously. Customers can count on Google to handle customer data in line with the agreement, including our commitments (1) to process customer data according to customer instructions under the agreement, and (2) not to use customer data to train or fine-tune any of Google's generative artificial intelligence models supporting the Google Workspace Generative AI Services without our customer's prior permission or instruction.
But they aren't just words. To ensure we continually meet these high standards, independent auditors validate our practices against international standards and best practices. We've attained some of the most comprehensive set of safety, privacy and security certifications and attestations for Gemini from internationally recognized regulatory and compliance bodies, such as SOC 1/2/3, ISO 9001, ISO/IEC 27001, 27701, 27017, 27018, and 42001 - the world's first international standard for Artificial Intelligence Management Systems (AIMS). Gemini has FedRAMP High authorization and can also help you meet HIPAA compliance.
Where does the data used to train Google's foundational language models come from?
Google's foundational language models are trained primarily on publicly available, crawlable data from the internet. We give publishers control over how their sites are used with Google-Extended, which web publishers can use to manage whether their sites help improve Gemini Apps and Vertex AI generative APIs.
Features and functionality
Is Personal Intelligence available for Google Workspace Business, Enterprise, or Education accounts?
No. Personal Intelligence is a beta feature which enables eligible personal Google accounts to connect the Gemini app and Search services to Google apps, like Workspace and Photos, to provide more personalized suggestions. We'll notify you if the feature becomes available for your organization.
What models does Gemini use?
Gemini uses a collection of models from Google's rich repository. With these models, Gemini can help you write, visualize, organize, and connect more meaningfully. Read more about it on the Keyword Blog.
What controls do users have over Gemini?
As mentioned above generative AI does not change our foundational privacy protections for giving users choice and control over their data.
To that end we launched updated smart feature settings that govern the degree of personalization a user wants, specifically how a user's Workspace data is used to personalize other Google products. Turning on these features gives users a richer experience, allowing them to do everything from using Gemini in Workspace to allowing the Gemini app to access Workspace data via the Workspace extension. You can learn more about these user controls at Turn Google Workspace smart features on or off.
Admins also have access to these settings in the Admin Console and have the ability to set the default settings for your users. You can learn more about these admin controls at Turn Google Workspace smart features on or off.
As an admin, can I turn Gemini on and off for users?
Yes. Access to the Gemini app as a core service is turned on by default. Admins manage access to the Gemini app and can choose to disable the service. Learn how to turn the Gemini app on or off for users.
Additionally, for supported Workspace editions, admins can enable or disable Gemini features and the side panel in the following Workspace services:
- Gmail
- Drive
- Docs
- Meet
- Chat
Learn how to manage access to Gemini features in Workspace services
How does Google use in-product feedback from Gemini users?
Providing in-product feedback is entirely voluntary. If users choose to submit feedback while using Gemini features, they can provide the following data:
- The user's rating for Gemini suggestions (thumbs up / thumbs down)
- The issue found by the user, selected from a set of pre-defined options such as "offensive / unsafe" or "not factually correct" (Gemini in Workspace only)
- Any additional feedback the user may want to provide via the open text box (Gemini in Workspace only)
- The user's prompt, contextual sources (such as documents or email messages), and the generated output; only if the checkboxes to share the prompt and output remain selected by the user (Gemini in Workspace only)
Feedback is used to improve generative AI products and services in accordance with the Google Cloud Privacy Notice, but it is not used to train any of the generative AI models that support Google Workspace Generative AI Services. The feedback may be used in the following ways:
- Aggregate analysis: To track overall user satisfaction and identify trends to inform future improvements and prioritization
- Fix bugs: To identify and resolve issues quickly
- Fight policy violations: To improve Gemini safety features that are designed to help prevent the generation of harmful or offensive content
Feedback data may be retained for up to 18 months.
What is Workspace Intelligence?
Workspace Intelligence is the secure, underlying engine that powers context-aware generative AI features across Google Workspace. It finds and retrieves content across your active Workspace apps (Gmail, Drive, Calendar, and Chat) to give Gemini the deep context needed to provide highly relevant, personalized assistance.
When Workspace Intelligence accesses your organization's information to generate responses, it adheres to strict enterprise privacy standards:
- No Model Training: Your content is not reviewed by humans or otherwise used for Gemini model training outside your domain without permission.
- Built-in Security: The AI follows your existing Google Workspace permissions. If you don't have permission to see a file, the AI can't see it or use it either. The system only retrieves, ranks, and generates context from files, emails, and data that the user already has explicit permission to access.
Administrators maintain full control over Workspace Intelligence. You can enable or disable specific Workspace services (Gmail, Drive, Calendar, or Chat) from being actively searched by Gemini.
- When a source is turned off: Gemini will no longer actively search that specific app for background context (which may limit certain features like Gmail AI Overviews or calendar scheduling).
- Active context remains available: Even if a source like Drive is disabled globally, users can still securely ask Gemini about a specific file they explicitly link in their prompt, or use Gemini to analyze a document they currently have open.
Learn more about how Workspace Intelligence provides contextual AI in a secure, governed, and compliant manner.
Security and compliance
What privacy, security, data governance, and compliance controls are available for Gemini for Workspace?
We want our customers to feel confident that their data is private and secure when using Gemini. We've built robust safeguards into Gemini by default. We also provide a number of data access and security controls to give you control over your data. Learn more in our privacy, security, and compliance white paper.
Are audit logs available for Gemini?
Google Workspace provides admins with a robust set of audit logs to track user activity and interactions with Gemini in the Gemini app and Workspace apps (Chat, Classroom, Docs, Drive, Gmail, Keep, Meet, Sheets, Slides, and Vids). Learn more about Workspace audit logs at Access Gemini Audit logs using the Reporting API, the security and audit investigation tools.
How does Gemini protect users from threats, like malicious content and prompt injections?
When users prompt Gemini to perform an action in Gemini in Workspace or the Gemini app, Gemini checks for threats before performing the action. If Gemini identifies malicious content or detects suspicious activity, it notifies the user and excludes the content, or blocks the action. Learn more about how we are protecting gen AI users from threats and mitigating prompt injection attacks with a layered defense strategy.
What is the scope of agreements that govern the use of generative AI?
Does using Gemini impact any existing compliance certifications (e.g. ISO, SOC, etc.)?
Google has a long-standing commitment to global privacy compliance, and generative AI services are no different.
Gemini has attained SOC 1/2/3, ISO 9001, ISO/IEC 27001, 27701, 27017, 27018, and 42001 certifications. Gemini has FedRAMP High authorization. Additionally, Gemini supports compliance with COPPA and FERPA.
With these certifications, Gemini has one of the most comprehensive set of safety, privacy and security certifications internationally recognized by regulatory and compliance bodies.
The achievement of ISO/IEC 42001, the world's first international standard for Artificial Intelligence Management Systems (AIMS), certifies that Gemini has been developed, deployed, and maintained responsibly with appropriate ethical considerations, data governance, and transparency. No other generative AI offering for productivity and collaboration has met this level of recognition, showing that Gemini is the first in the industry ready to support businesses and public sector organizations while benefiting all users.
Does using Gemini comply with HIPAA?
Gemini can support HIPAA workloads. The HIPAA Included Functionality and the Google Workspace and Cloud Identity HIPAA implementation guide have been updated to reflect the inclusion of Gemini.
Does Gemini meet FedRAMP?
Gemini in Workspace apps and the Gemini app have FedRAMP High authorization. Learn more on the Google Cloud Blog.
Does Gemini Notebook support ISO, SOC, HIPAA, or FedRAMP compliance?
No. At this stage Gemini Notebook does not support ISO, SOC, or FedRAMP compliance and is not covered by the Google Business Associate Agreement (BAA) for HIPAA compliance. We plan to work toward these compliance certifications and will share more updates soon.
Does Gemini in Chrome support ISO, SOC, HIPAA, or FedRAMP compliance?
No. At this stage Gemini in Chrome does not support ISO, SOC, or FedRAMP compliance and is not covered by the Google Business Associate Agreement (BAA) for HIPAA compliance. We plan to work toward these compliance certifications and will share more updates in 2025. See Turn the Gemini app on or off for information about disabling Gemini in Chrome.
How does Google Workspace plan to comply with the EU AI Act?
We believe that AI is too important not to regulate. Google is committed to compliance with all applicable laws. Google is signing the European Union's General Purpose AI Code of Practice. Learn more on our Keyword blog post.
In the months ahead, as detailed requirements are developed, we will continue to thoroughly analyze and integrate them into our existing policies and practices. Our focus is on ensuring our products and services align with the Act's requirements while continuing to deliver the innovative solutions our customers expect. Learn more about Google Cloud's commitment to EU AI Act support.
How does Gemini comply with the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)?
Gemini follows the same privacy and security principles across all of the Workspace applications. You can find the details in our privacy and security support pages.
My organization is in the public sector and is required to conduct a DPIA of Gemini. How do I do that?
In addition to this Privacy Hub, we announced and published a DPIA support guide to provide our customers, especially those in the public and education sectors, with Gemini specific content for their required assessments. Refer to our DPIA Resource Center for guidance around the DPIA process itself.
Does using Gemini in Workspace involve "direct internet access"?
No. When users interact with Gemini in Workspace, their queries remain within the Google internal environment. The service does not establish a direct connection between the user's local network and the public internet. Instead, all processing occurs within Google's secure infrastructure, maintaining the same enterprise-grade protections as other Google Workspace core services.
How does Gemini retrieve real-time information (e.g., weather, exchange rates) if it doesn't use the public internet access?
Gemini uses an internal “Search grounding" mechanism to provide up-to-date information. Rather than crawling the live web directly from your organization's environment, Gemini performs lookups against Google's internal web index. This allows the model to access relevant, real-time data while ensuring that your prompts and data remain protected within the Google Workspace security boundary.
Gemini app
How do Google Workspace apps in the Gemini app work?
Gemini allows you to connect to the Google Workspace app to improve your productivity and streamline your workflows. When you turn on the Google Workspace app in Gemini, you can ask Gemini to:
- Find information from Gmail or summarize documents from Drive
- Add and show your tasks from Google Tasks
- Create and show your notes and lists in Google Keep
- Create, find, and edit your events in Google Calendar
Your use of Gemini with the Workspace app is governed by your organization's Workspace agreement, including the Cloud Data Processing Addendum. Your chats and uploaded files in Gemini app won't be reviewed by human reviewers or otherwise used to train generative AI models without your permission.
Important: Using third party apps with Gemini is governed by different terms and is not subject to this article.
Can I control access to the Workspace app in Gemini?
Yes. Admins have the ability to control whether users in your organization can access the Workspace app in Gemini. You can find more details at Turn Google apps in Gemini on or off.
Users have the ability to enable and disable the Workspace app in Gemini settings. You can find more details at Use apps connected to Gemini with a work or school Google Account. Also, as mentioned above, users have control over their smart feature settings, including allowing the Gemini app to access Workspace data via the Workspace app. You can learn more about these user controls at Turn on Google Workspace smart features in Gmail.
What is Gemini App with enterprise-grade data protections?
The Gemini app is now a core Workspace service for most Google Workplace editions subject to your organization's Workspace agreement, including the Cloud Data Processing Addendum. When Google Workspace business, education, and public sector customers use the Gemini app, they get the same robust data protection and security standards that come with all Google Workspace services. Your chats and uploaded files won't be reviewed by human reviewers or otherwise used to train generative AI models outside of your domain without your permission.
Are there age restrictions for Gemini for Education?
If you turn on Gemini with added data protection, Google Workspace for Education users of any age can access the Gemini app. Certain features of the Gemini app are restricted by default for Google Workspace for Education users designated as under 18.
How is my organization's data processed by Gemini in Chrome?
Gemini in Chrome can use the context of browser tabs selected by your users to help provide relevant responses. When sharing is turned on, the tab the user is viewing is shared by default. The user can also select additional tabs to share. When you enable Gemini in Chrome, Gemini collects and processes the URLs and page content of the selected browser tabs in chat or live mode. This data is not human reviewed or otherwise used for Generative AI model training outside your domain without permission.
Users can stop sharing their current tab or any selected tabs at any time by clicking the X icon next to the tab name.
When Google Search is used as a grounding source in the Gemini App, are prompts stored or logged in Google Search servers?
No. When Google Search is used for grounding, any data shared is encrypted and processed ephemerally; these interaction logs are flagged and redacted from any Search logs. This is to ensure that any Search grounding for Workspace customers is conducted under our Cloud Data Processing Addendum, ensuring your prompts remain private and are never used to train our Generative AI models.
Gemini Notebook
Gemini Notebook is now a Google Workspace core service. What does this mean?
As a core Workspace service, Gemini Notebook is subject to your organization's Workspace agreement, including the Cloud Data Processing Addendum and gets the same robust data protection and security standards that come with all Google Workspace services. In addition, your uploads, queries and the model's responses in Gemini Notebook will not be reviewed by human reviewers, and will not otherwise be used to train generative AI models.
Where is Gemini Notebook data processed and stored?
When users upload sources from Drive, Gemini Notebook creates a new copy of each file. This new file is stored with the user's Gemini Notebook data, not in their Drive. Your organization's file sharing and data region settings do not apply to data in Gemini Notebook.
Can I turn Gemini Notebook ON or OFF for my organization?
Yes, admins can turn Gemini Notebook on or off. This setting also allows Admins to turn Gemini Notebook ON for their entire organization or only for a subset of users in a specific organization unit or group.
Do Workspace Data Loss Prevention (DLP) capabilities apply to interactions with Gemini Notebook?
Gemini Notebook is currently not integrated with Workspace DLP. However you can use Information Rights Management (disable download, copy, or print) to prevent Drive files from being uploaded into Gemini Notebook.
Is Gemini Notebook covered by Context Aware Access (CAA)?
Yes, admins can use CAA with Gemini Notebook to help protect resources from unauthorized access by restricting access to only those users who are in the appropriate context (such as user's device posture, network traits).
Can I export Gemini Notebook data via Google Takeout or Data Export?
Yes, Admins can export Gemini Notebook data using the Data Export tool. Gemini Notebook also supports end-user Takeout. Users can initiate a Takeout request to export their data at takeout.google.com.
Updates
The table below lists updates to this page:
| Date | Update |
|---|---|
| July 1, 2026 | Updated question about how Google uses in-product feedback for new feedback and data donation flows |
| May 26, 2026 | Added question: - When Google Search is used as a grounding source in the Gemini App, are prompts stored or logged in Google Search servers?
|
| April 22, 2026 | Added questions: - What is Workspace Intelligence?
- Does using Gemini in Workspace involve "direct internet access"?
- How does Gemini retrieve real-time information (e.g., weather, exchange rates) if it doesn't use the public internet access"?
|
| March 13, 2026 | Updated questions about Gemini in Workspace data retention and user controls |
| January 14, 2026 | Added question about Personal Intelligence |
| November 4, 2025 | Updated question about how Google uses in-product feedback from Gemini users |
| September 15, 2025 | Gemini for Education updates |
| August 29, 2025 |
Added question: - Does Gemini in Chrome support ISO, SOC, HIPAA, or FedRAMP compliance?
Updates to the following questions: - How is my organization's data processed by Gemini in Chrome?
- My organization is in the public sector and is required to conduct a DPIA of Gemini. How do I do that?
|
| August 7, 2025 | Updates to questions about audit log availability and EU AI Act compliance under Security and compliance |
| June 27, 2025 |
Added Gemini data retention table Added question: - What privacy, security, data governance, and compliance controls are available for Gemini for Workspace?
Updates to the following questions: - Where is my organization's data processed and stored for Gemini?
- How long are prompts saved?
- How does Gemini protect users from threats, like malicious content and prompt injections?
|
| May 20, 2025 | Updates throughout for Chrome in Gemini feature |
| May 2, 2025 | Added question about protecting users from threats under Security and compliance |
| March 20, 2025 |
- Added Gemini Notebook questions
- Updated FedRAMP High authorization for Gemini in Workspace and Gemini app
|
| January 14, 2025 | Added Gemini app questions |
| December 17, 2024 | Generative AI in Google Workspace Privacy Hub published |