--- Content from https://openai.com/policies/services-agreement/ ---

Effective: January 1, 2026
This OpenAI Services Agreement only applies to use of OpenAI’s APIs, ChatGPT Enterprise, ChatGPT Business, ChatGPT for Clinicians, and other services for customers who are businesses and developers, and does not apply to OpenAI services used by consumers or individuals unless specified above.
This OpenAI Services Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered as of the Effective Date between the organization agreeing to these terms (“Customer”) and the OpenAI Contracting Party defined below (“OpenAI”). In this Agreement, OpenAI and Customer are each referred to as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.” Capitalized terms not defined in the Agreement have the meanings provided in the Order Form, Customer represents it is lawfully able to enter into this Agreement and, if it is entering into the Agreement for an entity, that it has legal authority to bind that entity. By clicking “I agree,” accepting the Order Form, or using the Services, Customer agrees to this Agreement.
1. Services.
1.1. Services Term. OpenAI will deliver the Services to Customer for the Services Term. The Services Term will be listed on the Order Form. Unless the Parties agree otherwise in writing, increases in the Services purchased during a Services Term will have a prorated term ending concurrently with the then-current Services Term.
1.2. Renewal. Renewal Terms, if any, and whether the Services auto renew, will be listed on the applicable Order Form. Notice of non-renewal or scope reduction must be given at least thirty days before the start of the next Renewal Term. If Customer reduces its license count, quantity, or minimum commitment, OpenAI may adjust or remove discounts offered to Customer based on its prior purchase.
1.3. Authorized Purchasers.
a. Provisioning. To provision the Services, OpenAI requires the email address of the initial Authorized Purchaser to be included on the Order Form. Failure to include correct Authorized Purchaser information on the Order Form may result in delays.
b. Purchases. The Services may be configured to allow Authorized Purchasers to purchase additional licenses, quantities, or volumes of Services. Customer is responsible for understanding the Services settings that allow additional purchases. OpenAI will charge Customer for additional licenses, quantities, or volumes of Services for the remainder of the then-current Services Term based on Customer’s then-current price unless otherwise set forth on the Order Form.
1.4. Affiliates.
a. Usage. OpenAI provisions the Services to specific entities using dedicated workspaces and organizational IDs. Customer Affiliates may use the Services under Customer’s Account, which means Customer and its Affiliates usage will occur in the same workspace and under the same organizational ID. Customer will be responsible and liable for all acts and omissions of its Affiliates that access the Services in connection with this Agreement.
b. Separate Purchases. If Customer Affiliates’ purchase and use of the Services is intended to be separate from Customer’s, then the Affiliate must execute a separate Order Form. OpenAI will then create a separate workspace and organizational ID for that Affiliate and provision the Services accordingly. If Customer Affiliates enter into Order Forms under this Agreement they will be bound by this Agreement.
1.5. Usage-based Services. If Customer purchases Services based on usage, Customer acknowledges that OpenAI will charge Customer the Fees for the Services based on the usage calculated by OpenAI.
2. Provision.
2.1. General. The Agreement governs Customer’s access to and use of the Services. Customer may access and use the Services in accordance with the Agreement.
2.2. Use. OpenAI grants Customer a non-exclusive right to access and use the Services during the Term. This includes the right to use OpenAI’s API to integrate the Services into Customer Applications and to make Customer Applications available to End Users.
2.3. Modifications. OpenAI may update the Services periodically. If an OpenAI update materially reduces the Services functionality, OpenAI will notify Customer at the Account email address. Within five business days of receipt of this notice, Customer may choose to terminate the Agreement by providing thirty days written notice. This termination right will not apply to updates made to features provided on a beta or evaluation basis.
3. Customer obligations.
3.1. Customer Account. Customer must provide accurate and current Account information. Customer will not share Account access credentials or individual login credentials between multiple users. Customer may not resell or lease access to its Account or any End User Account. Customer will promptly notify OpenAI if it becomes aware of unauthorized access to the Account or the Services.
3.2. End Users. End User Accounts may only be provisioned to, registered for, and used by, a single End User. Customer is responsible for all activities that occur under its Account, including the activities of End Users with an End User Account or who access the Services through a Customer Application. Customer will obtain and maintain from End Users any consents necessary to allow Administrators to engage in the activities described in the Agreement and to allow OpenAI to deliver the Services.
3.3. Restrictions. Customer will not, and will not permit End Users to: (a) use the Services or Customer Content in a way that violates applicable laws or OpenAI Policies; (b) use the Services or Customer Content in a way that violates third parties’ rights; (c) allow minors to use OpenAI Services without consent from their parent or guardian; (d) Reverse Engineer any aspect of the Services or the systems used to provide the Services; (e) except for a Permitted Exception, use Output to develop artificial intelligence models that compete with OpenAI’s products and services; (f) extract data from the Services other than as permitted through the Services; (g) buy, sell, or transfer API keys from, to, or with a third party; (h) interfere with or disrupt the Services, including circumvent any rate limits or restrictions or bypass any protective measures or safety mitigations for the Services; (i) violate or circumvent Usage Limits or otherwise configure the Services to avoid Usage Limits.
3.4. Third-Party Services. Third-Party Services may be available through the Services, which Customer may elect to use in its sole discretion. By accessing a Third-Party Service, Customer agrees to the applicable Third-Party Service Terms. Customer’s access or use of Third-Party Services are governed by this Agreement and the relevant Third-Party Service Terms.
4. Customer Content.
4.1. Generally. Customer and Customer’s End Users may provide Input and receive Output. As between Customer and OpenAI, to the extent permitted by applicable law, Customer: (a) retains all ownership rights in Input; and (b) owns all Output. OpenAI hereby assigns to Customer all OpenAI’s right, title, and interest, if any, in and to Output.
4.2. OpenAI Obligations. OpenAI will only use Customer Content as necessary to provide Customer with the Services, comply with applicable law, enforce the OpenAI Policies, and prevent abuse. OpenAI will not use Customer Content to develop or improve the Services, unless Customer explicitly agrees to such use.
4.3. Customer Obligations. Customer is responsible for all Input and represents and warrants that it has all rights, licenses, and permissions required to provide Input to the Services. Customer is solely responsible for all use of the Outputs and for evaluating the accuracy and appropriateness of Output for Customer’s use case.
4.4. Similarity of Output. Due to the nature of OpenAI’s Services and artificial intelligence generally, Output may not be unique, and other users may receive similar content from OpenAI’s services. Responses that are requested by and generated for other users are not considered Customer’s Output.
5. Security and Privacy.
5.1. Security Measures. OpenAI will comply with the Security Measures. OpenAI may periodically update the Security Measures. If OpenAI updates the Security Measures in a manner that materially diminishes the administrative, technical, or physical security features of the Services taken as a whole, Customer may elect to terminate the Agreement and associated Order Forms by providing written notice to OpenAI within five business days of the update.
5.2. Audit Reports. OpenAI has completed audits, conducted by an independent auditor, that evaluated the design and effectiveness of OpenAI security policies, procedures, and controls for the Services. Upon Customer’s written request, but no more than once per year, OpenAI will provide Customer a copy of the most recent Audit Reports, which will be deemed OpenAI Confidential Information.
5.3. Privacy. If Customer uses the Services to process Personal Data, OpenAI and Customer will comply with the DPA, which is incorporated by this reference into the Agreement.
5.4. HIPAA. Customer agrees not to use the Services to create, receive, maintain, transmit, or otherwise process Protected Health Information, unless it has signed the Healthcare Addendum. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, NOT ALL SERVICES OFFERED BY OPENAI ARE DESIGNED FOR PROCESSING PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION. IF CUSTOMER USES A SERVICE THAT IS NOT DESIGNED FOR PROCESSING PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION, CUSTOMER MAY NOT USE THE SERVICES TO STORE, TRANSMIT, OR PROCESS THIS INFORMATION.
6. Payment.
6.1. Fees. Customer will pay OpenAI or Customer’s reseller the applicable Fees in the currency and pursuant to the payment terms on the Order Form. Customer authorizes OpenAI, or Customer’s reseller if applicable, to charge Customer for all applicable Fees using the payment method on the Account. Fees are non-refundable except as required by law or as otherwise specifically permitted in the Agreement. If Customer’s Order Form includes a minimum commitment, the minimum commitment amount is non-cancellable except as required by law or as otherwise specifically permitted in the Agreement.
6.2. Payment. Customer will pay OpenAI invoices on the payment interval set forth in the Order Form. OpenAI may suspend or terminate the Services if Fees are past due. Customer will provide complete and accurate billing and contact information to OpenAI.
6.3. Taxes. Fees are exclusive of taxes, which OpenAI, or Customer’s reseller, will charge as required by applicable law in connection with the Services. OpenAI, or Customer’s reseller, will use the name and address in the Account as the place of supply for tax purposes. All Fees under this Agreement shall be paid in full, without any deduction or withholding for taxes, levies, duties, tariffs, or other charges of any nature imposed by any governmental authority. If any such deduction or withholding is required by law, Customer shall increase the payment to OpenAI, or to Customer's reseller, so that the net amount received equals the amount invoiced.
6.4. Disputes. To dispute an invoice Customer must: (a) contact ar-enterprise@openai.com within thirty days of the date the disputed invoice was issued; and (b) pay all undisputed amounts. Overdue undisputed amounts may be subject to a finance charge of 1.5% of the unpaid balance per month.
6.5. Service Credits. Customer may need to prepay for Services by purchasing Service Credits. Service Credits are subject to the Service Credit Terms.
6.6. Corrections. Price changes on the Pricing Page will be effective fourteen days after they are posted. OpenAI has the right to correct pricing errors or mistakes even after issuing an invoice or receiving payment.
7. Confidentiality.
7.1. Use and Nondisclosure. Recipient agrees it will: (a) only use Discloser's Confidential Information to exercise its rights and fulfill its obligations under this Agreement; (b) take reasonable measures to protect the Confidential Information; and (c) not disclose the Confidential Information to any third party except as expressly permitted in this Agreement.
7.2. Exceptions. The obligations in Section 7.1 do not apply to information that: (a) is or becomes generally available to the public through no fault of Recipient; (b) was in Recipient’s possession or known by it prior to receipt from Discloser; (c) was rightfully disclosed to Recipient without restriction by a third party; or (d) was independently developed without use of Discloser’s Confidential Information.
7.3. Permitted Disclosure. Recipient may disclose Confidential Information only to its Affiliates, employees, contractors, and agents who have a need to know and who are bound by confidentiality obligations at least as restrictive as those in this Agreement. Recipient will be responsible for any breach of this Section 7 by its employees, contractors, and agents. Recipient may disclose Confidential Information to the extent required by law, if Recipient uses reasonable efforts to notify Discloser, to the extent permitted, prior to doing so.
7.4. Remedies. Recipient acknowledges that a disclosure of Confidential Information in violation of these terms would cause substantial harm for which damages alone would not be a sufficient remedy, and therefore upon any such disclosure by Recipient, Discloser will be entitled to seek appropriate equitable relief in addition to whatever other remedies it might have at law.
8. Suspension.
8.1. Of End User Accounts. If an End User: (a) violates the Agreement; or (b) causes, or will cause, a Security Emergency, then OpenAI may request that Customer suspend or terminate the relevant End User account. If Customer fails to promptly suspend or terminate the End User account, then OpenAI may do so.
8.2. Of the Services. OpenAI may limit or suspend Customer’s access to the Services if: (a) it is required to do so by law; (b) Customer violates the Agreement or OpenAI Policies; or (c) doing so is necessary to prevent or terminate a Security Emergency. OpenAI will use reasonable efforts to notify Customer before limiting to or suspending the Services pursuant to the preceding sentence but may do so without prior notice to the extent reasonably necessary. OpenAI will use reasonable efforts to: (i) narrowly tailor a limitation or suspension to prevent or terminate the Security Emergency; and (ii) cooperate with Customer to promptly restore access to the Services once it verifies Customer has resolved the condition requiring suspension.
9. IP Rights.
9.1. Reservation of Rights. Except as expressly set forth herein, the Agreement does not grant: (a) OpenAI any IP Rights in Customer Content; or (b) Customer any IP Rights in the Services. Customer obtains only a limited right to use the Services, and no ownership rights are transferred to Customer or its End Users under this Agreement.
9.2. Limited Permission. Customer grants OpenAI only the limited rights that are reasonably necessary for OpenAI to deliver the Services. This limited permission also extends to subcontractors or sub-processors.
9.3. Feedback. If Customer provides Feedback, Customer grants OpenAI the right to use and exploit Feedback without restriction or compensation.
10. No Publicity.
Except with express prior written permission in each instance, neither Party will: (i) include the other Party’s name or logo on their websites, media, or marketing materials; or (ii) make any public statement about its relationship with the other Party or this Agreement.
11. Term and Termination.
11.1. Agreement Term. The Agreement will remain in effect for the Term.
11.2. Termination. Either Party may terminate this Agreement, including all Order Forms, upon written notice if the other party: (a) materially breaches this Agreement and fails to cure the breach within thirty days after receipt of written notice; or (b) ceases its business operations or becomes subject to insolvency proceedings.
11.3. Effects of Termination. If this Agreement terminates: (a) the rights granted by OpenAI to Customer will cease immediately; and (b) OpenAI will delete all Customer Content from its systems within thirty days, unless: (i) OpenAI is legally required to retain it; or (ii) Customer has agreed otherwise in writing. Termination or expiration will not affect any rights or obligations, including the payment of amounts due, which have accrued under this Agreement up to the date of termination. In addition, except for a termination by Customer for cause, if this Agreement terminates any unpaid minimum commitment amounts set forth on the Order form will become immediately due. Despite anything to the contrary in this Agreement, OpenAI may retain Abusive Customer Content, or, if Customer’s access to the Services is suspended via Section 8 or terminated via Section 11, share information related to Abusive Customer Content, as required by law, or as reasonably necessary to protect the Services or any third party from harm.
11.4. Survival. The following provisions will survive termination or expiration of the Agreement: 6.2 (Payment), 7 (Confidentiality), 9 (IP Rights), 11.3 (Effects of Termination), 11.4 (Survival), 12 (Warranties; Disclaimers), 13 (Indemnification), 14 (Limitation of Liability), 16 (Miscellaneous).
12. Warranties; Disclaimer.
12.1. Warranties. OpenAI warrants that, during the Term, when used in accordance with this Agreement, the Services will conform in all material respects with the Documentation.
12.2. Disclaimer. SUBJECT TO SECTION 12.1, THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS.” TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY STATED IN THE AGREEMENT, OPENAI AND ITS AFFILIATES AND LICENSORS MAKE NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. OPENAI MAKES NO REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY OR GUARANTEE THAT SERVICES WILL MEET CUSTOMER’S REQUIREMENTS OR EXPECTATIONS, THAT CUSTOMER CONTENT WILL BE ACCURATE, THAT DEFECTS WILL BE CORRECTED, OR REGARDING ANY THIRD-PARTY SERVICES. OPENAI WILL NOT BE RESPONSIBLE OR LIABLE FOR ANY CUSTOMER CONTENT, THIRD-PARTY SERVICES, THIRD-PARTY CONTENT, OR NON-OPENAI SERVICES (INCLUDING FOR ANY DELAYS, INTERRUPTIONS, TRANSMISSION ERRORS, SECURITY FAILURES, AND OTHER PROBLEMS CAUSED BY THESE ITEMS).
12.3. Beta Services. Despite anything to the contrary in the Agreement: (a) Customer may choose to use Beta Services in its sole discretion; (b) Beta Services may not be supported and may be changed at any time without notice; (c) Beta Services may not be as reliable or available as the Services; (d) Beta Services have not been subjected to the same Security Measures and auditing as the Services; and (e) OPENAI WILL HAVE NO LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH BETA SERVICES – USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.
13. Indemnification.
13.1. By OpenAI. OpenAI agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold Customer harmless against any liabilities, damages and costs (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) payable to a third party arising out of a Claim alleging that the Services infringe any third-party IP Right. This excludes claims to the extent arising from: (a) combination of any Services with products, services, or software not provided by OpenAI or on OpenAI’s behalf; (b) modification of any Services by any party other than OpenAI; (c) Customer Content; (d) Customer Applications (if any and the claim would not have arisen but for the Customer Application). In addition, the Service-Specific Terms Indemnity, as of the Effective Date, is included in this Agreement, is not subject to any liability cap, and OpenAI may not materially reduce Customer’s protections under the Service-Specific Terms Indemnity without Customer’s written agreement.
13.2. By Customer. Customer agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold OpenAI and its affiliates and licensors harmless against any liabilities, damages, and costs (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) payable to a third party arising out of a Claim related to: (a) use of the Services in violation of this Agreement; (b) Customer Applications, if any; or (c) Customer Content.
13.3. Mitigation. If OpenAI reasonably believes that all or any portion of the Services is likely to become the subject of an infringement Claim, OpenAI will: (a) obtain, at OpenAI’s expense, the right for Customer to continue using the Services in accordance with this Agreement; (b) replace or modify the allegedly infringing Service; or (c) if (a) and (b) are not commercially practicable, OpenAI may, in its sole discretion, terminate this Agreement upon written notice to Customer and refund any prepaid amounts for unused Services. Customer will promptly comply with all reasonable instructions provided by OpenAI with respect to the above, including any instruction to replace, modify, or cease use of the Service.
13.4. Procedure. A party seeking indemnity will provide the indemnifying party with prompt written notice upon becoming aware of any claim, reasonable cooperation in the defense of or investigation of the claim and allow the indemnifying party sole control of defense and settlement of the claim including selection of counsel, provided that the party seeking indemnity is entitled to participate in its own defense at its sole expense. The indemnifying party cannot enter any settlement or compromise of any claim without prior written consent of the other party, which will not be unreasonably withheld, except that the indemnifying party may without consent enter any settlement of a claim that resolves the claim without liability to the other party, impairment to any of the other party’s rights, or requiring the other party to make any admission of liability. THE INDEMNITIES ARE A PARTY'S ONLY REMEDY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR VIOLATION BY THE OTHER PARTY OF A THIRD PARTY'S IP RIGHTS.
14. Limitation of Liability.
14.1. Limitation on Indirect Liability. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EXCEPT FOR: (A) A PARTY’S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT; (B) CUSTOMER’S BREACH OF SECTION 3.3 (RESTRICTIONS); (C) OPENAI’S BREACH OF SECTION 5.1 (SECURITY MEASURES), OR (D) EITHER PARTY’S BREACH OF SECTION 7 (CONFIDENTIALITY), NEITHER CUSTOMER NOR OPENAI OR EITHER PARTY’S AFFILIATES OR LICENSORS WILL BE LIABLE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, EVEN IF THE PARTY KNEW OR SHOULD HAVE KNOWN THAT SUCH DAMAGES WERE POSSIBLE AND EVEN IF A REMEDY FAILS OF ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.
14.2. Limitation on Amount of Liability. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EXCEPT FOR: (A) A PARTY’S GROSS NEGLIGENCE OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT, (B) A PARTY’S INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, OR (C) CUSTOMER’S PAYMENT OBLIGATIONS, EACH PARTY’S TOTAL LIABILITY UNDER THE AGREEMENT WILL NOT EXCEED THE TOTAL AMOUNT CUSTOMER PAID TO OPENAI DURING THE TWELVE MONTHS IMMEDIATELY PRIOR TO THE EVENT GIVING RISE TO LIABILITY. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS APPLY DESPITE ANY FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.
15. Dispute Resolution.
15.1. Mandatory Arbitration. Customer and OpenAI agree to resolve any Disputes, regardless of when they arose, even if it was before this Agreement existed, through final and binding arbitration.
15.2. Informal Dispute Resolution. OpenAI wants to understand and address Customer concerns prior to formal legal action. The Parties agree to try to resolve Disputes informally before filing a claim against one another. Customer will do so by completing the Informal Dispute Resolution Form. OpenAI will do so by notifying Customer at the Account email address. If the Parties cannot resolve a Dispute within sixty days, either Party may initiate arbitration. Both Parties also agree to attend an individual settlement conference if either Party requests one during this time. Any statute of limitations will be tolled during this informal resolution process.
15.3. Generally. Customer and OpenAI agree to resolve any Disputes through final and binding arbitration, except as set forth below. Either Party may commence binding arbitration through NAM, or, if NAM is not available, an alternative arbitral forum selected by the Parties. The initiating Party will pay all filing fees for the arbitration and payment for other administrative and arbitrator’s costs will be governed by the arbitration provider’s rules. If a Party’s claim is determined to be frivolous, the Party who initiated the frivolous claim is responsible for reimbursing the other Party for all administrative, hearing, and other fees incurred as a result of the frivolous claim.
15.4. Procedure. The arbitration will be conducted by telephone, based on written submissions, video conference, or in person in San Francisco, California or at another mutually agreed location. The arbitration will be conducted by a sole arbitrator by NAM under its then-prevailing rules. All issues are for the arbitrator to decide, except a California court has the authority to determine: (a) if a provision of this arbitration section should be severed and the consequences of that severance; (b) whether the Parties have complied with conditions precedent to arbitration; and (c) whether an arbitration provider is available to hear the arbitration. The amount of any settlement offer will not be disclosed to the arbitrator by either party until after the arbitrator determines the final award, if any.
15.5. Exceptions. Nothing in this Agreement requires arbitration of the following claims: (a) individual claims brought in small claims court; and (b) injunctive or other equitable relief to stop unauthorized use or abuse of the Services or intellectual property infringement.
15.6. No Class Actions. Disputes must be brought on an individual basis only and may not be brought as a plaintiff or class member in any purported class, consolidated, or representative proceeding. Class arbitrations, class actions, private attorney general actions, and consolidation with other arbitrations are not allowed. If for any reason a Dispute proceeds in court rather than through arbitration, each Party knowingly and irrevocably waives any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding, or counterclaim. This does not prevent either Party from participating in a class-wide settlement of claims.
15.7. Batch Arbitration. If twenty-five or more claimants represented by the same or similar counsel file demands for arbitration raising substantially similar Disputes within ninety days of each other, then Customer and OpenAI agree that NAM will administer them in Batches, unless there are less than fifty claimants in total or after batching, which will comprise a single Batch. NAM will administer each Batch as a single consolidated arbitration with one arbitrator, one set of arbitration fees, and one hearing held by videoconference or in a location decided by the arbitrator for each Batch. If any part of this section is found to be invalid or unenforceable as to a particular claimant or Batch, it will be severed and arbitrated in individual proceedings.
15.8. Severability. If any part of this Section 15 is found to be illegal or unenforceable, the remainder will remain in effect, except that if a finding of partial illegality or unenforceability would allow class or representative arbitration, this Section 15 will be unenforceable in its entirety. Nothing in this section will be deemed to waive or otherwise limit the right to seek public injunctive relief or any other non-waivable right, pending a ruling on the substance of that claim from the arbitrator.
16. Miscellaneous.
16.1. Entire Agreement. This Agreement is the entire agreement between Customer and OpenAI with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, communications and understandings, whether written or oral. This Agreement hereby incorporates by this reference the OpenAI Policies and relevant Order Forms. Customer agrees that any terms and conditions contained in any purchase order Customer sends to OpenAI will not apply to this Agreement and are null and void.
16.2. Conflicting Terms. If there is a conflict between the documents that make up the Agreement, the documents will control in the following order, the: (a) Order Form; (b) Service-Specific Terms; (c) Agreement; and (d) OpenAI
Policies.16.3. Governing Law. This Agreement will be governed by the Governing Laws. Without prejudice to Section 15, all claims arising out of or relating to this Agreement will be brought exclusively in the Venue.
16.4. Severability. Unenforceable provisions will be modified to reflect the parties' intention and only to the extent necessary to make them enforceable, and the remaining provisions of the Agreement will remain in full effect.
16.5. Notices. Notices must be sent via email, first class, airmail, or overnight courier and are deemed given when received. Notices to Customer may also be sent to the applicable Account email address and are deemed given when sent. Notices to OpenAI must be sent to OpenAI Legal at contract-notices@openai.com, with a copy to: (a) if OpenAI OpCo, LLC, 1455 3rd Street, San Francisco, California 94158; or (b) if OpenAI Ireland Ltd, 1st Floor, The Liffey Trust Centre, 117-126 Sheriff Street Upper, Dublin 1, D01 YC43, Ireland.
16.6. Waiver. A waiver of any default is not a waiver of any subsequent default.
16.7. Assignment. This Agreement cannot be assigned other than as permitted under this Section 16.7 (Assignment). OpenAI may assign this Agreement to an Affiliate without notice or Customer consent. Either Party may assign this Agreement to a successor to substantially all the respective party’s assets or business, provided the assigning party provides at least thirty days prior written notice of the assignment. This Agreement will be binding upon the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
16.8. No Agency. OpenAI and Customer are not legal partners or agents but are independent contractors.
16.9. Force Majeure. Except for payment obligations, neither Customer nor OpenAI will have any liability for failures or delays resulting from conditions beyond Customer’s or OpenAI’s reasonable control, including but not limited to governmental action or acts of terrorism, earthquake or other acts of God, labor conditions, or power failures.
16.10. No Third-Party Beneficiaries. There are no intended third-party beneficiaries to this Agreement, and it is Customer and OpenAI’s specific intent that nothing contained in this Agreement will give rise to any right or cause of action, contractual or otherwise, in or on behalf of any third party.
16.11. Trade Controls. Customer is solely responsible for ensuring that its use of the Services complies with applicable trade laws, including sanctions and export control laws. Customer’s Input may not include material or information that requires a government license for release or export. Customer may not use the Services in or for the benefit of, or export or re-export the Services to, any U.S. embargoed countries or to anyone on a Restricted Party List. Customer represents and warrants that Customer and End Users are not located in any U.S. embargoed countries, are not identified on any Restricted Party List, and that Customer will comply with applicable export control laws, including any “know your customer” requirements or obligations applicable to Customer’s End Users.
16.12. Geographical Limitations on Use. Customer and End Users may not access or offer access to the Services outside of the Supported Countries and Territories. A violation of this Section 16.12 may result in Services suspension under Section 8.
16.13. Updates.
a. Generally. OpenAI may update this Agreement, or OpenAI Policies, by providing Customer with reasonable notice, including by posting the update on OpenAI’s website. If OpenAI determines in its sole judgment that an update materially impacts Customer’s rights or obligations, OpenAI will provide Customer at least thirty days notice before the update is effective, unless the update is necessary for OpenAI to comply with applicable law, in which case OpenAI will provide Customer with as much notice as reasonably possible. Any other updates will be effective on the date OpenAI posts the updated Agreement or OpenAI Policy. Customer’s continued use of, or access to, the Services after an update is effective constitutes acceptance of the update. If Customer does not agree with an update, Customer may stop using the Services or terminate this Agreement under Section 11.
b. Exceptions. Except for an update to comply with applicable law, updates to this Agreement or the OpenAI Policies will not apply to: (i) Disputes between Customer and OpenAI arising prior to the update; or (ii) Order Forms signed by Customer and OpenAI (as opposed to an automated ordering page) prior to OpenAI notifying Customer of the update. However, to the extent an update relates to a Service or feature launched after an Order Form is signed it will be effective upon Customer’s first use of that Service.
16.14. Government Entity Rights. This Section 16.14 applies to Government Entities. For U.S. federal Government Entities, the Services are “commercial computer software” as defined at 48 C.F.R. § 2.101 and 48 C.F.R. § 252.227-7014(a)(1) and as the term is used in 48 C.F.R. §§ 12.212 and 227.7202, and related services are “commercial services” as defined in 48 C.F.R. § 2.101. The Services and Documentation are: (a) provided to Government Entity Customers and End Users, for use by the Government Entity or on its behalf; (b) subject to this Agreement and with only those rights as are granted to all other Customers and End Users, except to the limited extent prohibited by applicable law.
17. Definitions.
“Abusive Customer Content” means Inputs or Outputs that violate Section 3.3.
“Account” means an administrative account provided to Customer by OpenAI for the purpose of administering the Services.
“Administrator” means a Customer designated End User with administrative privileges.
“Account Console” means the online tool provided by OpenAI to Customer for use in administering the Services.
“Affiliate” means with respect to either Party, any other person or entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, that Party.
“API” means OpenAI’s application programming interface.
“Audit Reports” means the third-party audit reports for the Services.
“Authorized Purchaser” means a Customer employee designated by Customer to act as an authorized purchaser of the Services. Customer can designate Authorized Purchasers in an offline Order Form or in the Admin Console. Administrators are Authorized Purchasers. Authorized Purchasers may be periodically updated by Customer in the Account Console.
“Batch” means, for purposes of Section 15.7, a group of up to 50 claimants.
“Beta Services” means services or features identified as alpha, beta, preview, early access, or evaluation, or words or phrases with similar meanings.
“Confidential Information” means any business, technical or financial information, materials, or other subject matter disclosed by Discloser to Recipient that is: (a) identified as confidential at the time of disclosure; or (b) should be reasonably understood by Recipient to be confidential under the circumstances. Confidential Information includes Customer Content.
“Claim” means legal proceedings filed by a third party.
“Customer Application” means Customer’s applications, products, or services that integrate with an OpenAI API.
“Customer Content” means the Input and the Output.
“Discloser” means the Party that discloses Confidential Information to the other under this Agreement.
“Dispute” means a claim by a Party arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Services.
“Documentation” means the documentation OpenAI provides to Customer or otherwise makes publicly available.
“DPA” means the OpenAI data processing addendum at: https://openai.com/policies/data-processing-addendum.
“Effective Date” means the date this Agreement is entered into by the Parties, either by acceptance online, by signing an Order Form referencing the Agreement, or by signing the Agreement itself.
“End User” means any party: (a) who accesses the Services under Customer’s Account; or (b) who uses Customer Applications. End Users may include Customer’s and its Affiliate’s employees, consultants, customers, agents, representatives, students or any other person authorized by Customer to use the Services through Customer’s Account.
“End User Account” means an account for an End User under Customer’s Account.
“Feedback” means any feedback provided by Customer to OpenAI regarding the Services.
“Fees” means all fees charged to Customer’s Account in accordance with an Order Form, or if an Order Form does not exist, then according to the Pricing Page.
“Governing Laws” means: (a) for Customers in the EEA, Switzerland, or UK, the Laws of Ireland; and (b) for all other Customers, the laws of the State of California, excluding California’s conflicts of law rules or principles.
“Government Entity” means any nation or government, any state, municipality, or other political subdivision thereof, and any entity, body, agency, commission, department, board, bureau or court, whether domestic, foreign or multinational, exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government, and any employee or official thereof.
“Healthcare Addendum” means the OpenAI Healthcare Addendum and Business Associate Agreement provided by OpenAI to Customer.
“Informal Dispute Resolution Form” means the form located at this link.
“Initial Term” means the initial term for the Services beginning on the Start Date and continuing for the duration set forth on the Order Form.
“Input” means Customer and Customer’s End Users input to the Services.
“IP Rights” means all registered or unregistered intellectual property rights throughout the world, including rights in patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, designs, databases, domain names, and moral rights.
“NAM” means National Arbitration and Mediation.
“OpenAI Contracting Party” means: (a) OpenAI OpCo, LLC, for Customers located outside the EEA or Switzerland; (b) OpenAI Ireland Ltd. for Customers located in the EEA or Switzerland; or (c) OpenAI Public Sector, LLC if designated on the Order Form.
“OpenAI Policies” means the Service-Specific Terms, Sharing and Publication Policy, and Usage Policies. The version of OpenAI Policies applicable to Customer are those in effect on the most recent effective date between either the Agreement, Customer’s most recent Order Form, or Services renewal. If Customer elects to use new Services added to the Service-Specific Terms after the most recent effective date in the preceding sentence, then the OpenAI Policies in effect as of that Customer use will apply.
“Order Form” means: (a) when purchasing from OpenAI, the ordering document signed by Customer and OpenAI or OpenAI webpage that Customer uses to purchase the Services; or (b) when purchasing from a reseller, the ordering document signed by Customer and its reseller or reseller’s webpage Customer uses to purchase the Services.
“Output” means output from the Services based on the Input.
“Permitted Exception” means Customer using Output to: (a) develop artificial intelligence models primarily intended to categorize, classify, or organize data (e.g., embeddings or classifiers), if these models are not distributed or made commercially available to third parties; and (b) fine tune or customize models provided as part of OpenAI’s fine-tuning or other Services set forth on the Pricing Page.
“Personal Data” is as defined in the DPA.
“Pricing Page” means the pages available at https://openai.com/api/pricing or https://openai.com/chatgpt/pricing(opens in a new window).
“Protected Health Information” is as defined under the HIPAA Privacy Rule (45 C.F.R. Section 160.103).
“Recipient” means the Party receiving Confidential Information from the Discloser.
“Renewal Term” means a renewal term for the Services following either the Initial Term, or a previous Renewal Term. Note that if Customer renews without a new Order Form, the duration of that Renewal Term will be the same duration of the immediately preceding Initial Term or Renewal Term.
“Restricted Party List” means the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control’s (“OFAC”) list of Specially Designated Nationals (aka the “SDN List”), the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security’s (“BIS”) Denied Persons List and Entity List, and any other applicable restricted party lists promulgated by OFAC, BIS, or other agencies of comparable
jurisdiction, inside or outside the U.S., now or in the future.
“Reverse Engineer” means reverse assemble, reverse compile, decompile, translate, engage in model extraction or stealing attacks, or otherwise attempt to discover the source code or underlying components of the Services, algorithms, and systems of the Services (except to the extent these restrictions are contrary to applicable law).
“Security Emergency” means use of the Services by Customer or a Customer End User that could reasonably result in a security risk, credible risk of harm, infringement of third-party rights, or liability to OpenAI, the Services, or a third party.
“Security Measures” means the security measures available at: https://cdn.openai.com/osa/security-measures.pdf(opens in a new window)
“Service Credits” means, for the Services, either credits purchased by Customer or promotional credits provided by OpenAI to Customer.
“Service Credit Terms” means the terms available at: https://openai.com/policies/service-credit-terms.
“Services” means OpenAI’s services for businesses, enterprises, or developers made available for purchase or use in Customer’s Account, along with any of OpenAI’s associated software, tools, developer services, documentation, and websites, but excluding any Third-Party Service.
“Services Term” means the Initial Term and all Renewal Terms.
“Service-Specific Terms” means the terms specific to certain services at: https://openai.com/policies/service-terms.
“Service-Specific Terms Indemnity” means OpenAI’s indemnities included in the Service-Specific Terms.
“Sharing and Publication Policy” means the terms at: https://openai.com/policies/sharing-publication-policy.
“Start Date” means the date an Initial Term, or Renewal Term, begins. Start Dates are listed on the Order Form. Note that if Customer renews without a new Order Form, the Start Date for that Renewal Term will be calculated based on the original Start Date.
“Supported Countries and Territories” means the countries and territories for which OpenAI supports access to API Services and our ChatGPT services. These countries and territories are available at: https://help.openai.com/articles/5347006-openai-api-supported-countries-and-territories(opens in a new window) (for API) or https://help.openai.com/articles/7947663-chatgpt-supported-countries(opens in a new window) (for ChatGPT), and may be updated from time to time.
“Term” means the term of the Agreement, which will begin on the Effective Date and continue until the earlier of: (i) the end of the Services Term; or (ii) termination of the Agreement as set forth herein.
“Third-Party Services” means products, services, or content offered by parties other than OpenAI through the Services.
“Third-Party Service Terms” means any additional terms applicable to the Third-Party Service.
“Usage Limits” means End User, messaging, token, throughput rate, or other limits on Customer’s use of the Services as described in the applicable Order Form or Documentation.
“Usage Policies” means the usage policies at: https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies.
“Venue” means: (a) for Customers in the EEA, Switzerland or UK, the courts of Dublin, Ireland; and (b) for all other Customers, federal or state courts located in San Francisco County, California.

--- Content from https://openai.com/policies/service-terms/ ---

Service terms
These Service Terms govern your use of the Services. Capitalized terms not defined here will have the meanings in the Terms of Use, the OpenAI Services Agreement, or other agreement you have with us governing your use of the Services (“Agreement”). If there is a conflict between the Service Terms and your Agreement, the Service Terms will control. For purposes of these Terms, “Content” includes “Customer Content.”
1. API
OpenAI’s indemnification obligations to API customers under the Agreement include any third party claim that Customer’s use or distribution of Output infringes a third party’s intellectual property right. This indemnity does not apply where: (i) Customer or Customer’s End Users knew or should have known the Output was infringing or likely to infringe, (ii) Customer or Customer’s End Users disabled, ignored, or did not use any relevant citation, filtering or safety features or restrictions provided by OpenAI, (iii) Output was modified, transformed, or used in combination with products or services not provided by or on behalf of OpenAI, (iv) Customer or its End Users did not have the right to use the Input or fine-tuning files to generate the allegedly infringing Output, (v) the claim alleges violation of trademark or related rights based on Customer’s or its End Users’ use of Output in trade or commerce, and (vi) the allegedly infringing Output is from content from a Third Party Offering.
Customer will only, and will ensure that its End Users only, use APIs in accordance with the applicable documentation at https://platform.openai.com/docs(opens in a new window).
2. Beta Services
This section governs your use of services or features that OpenAI offers on an alpha, preview, early access, or beta basis (“Beta Services”). Beta Services are offered “as-is” to allow testing and evaluation and are excluded from any indemnification obligations OpenAI may have to you.
OpenAI makes no representations or warranties for Beta Services, including any warranty that Beta Services will be generally available, uninterrupted or error-free, or that Content will be secure or not lost or damaged. Except to the extent prohibited by law, OpenAI expressly disclaims all warranties for Beta Services, including any implied warranties of merchantability, satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or quiet enjoyment, and any warranties arising out of any course of dealing or usage of trade.
3. ChatGPT Enterprise, Edu, Healthcare and Business
(a) Administrators. ChatGPT Enterprise, ChatGPT Edu, and ChatGPT for Healthcare (collectively, “Enterprise”) and ChatGPT Business accounts are managed by End Users with administrative privileges (“Administrators”). Administrators may be able to add, remove and suspend End Users’ access to the organization’s workspace. In addition, ChatGPT Enterprise Administrators may be able to (a) access, share and remove Content; and (b) access logging and information about End Users’ use of ChatGPT Enterprise. Customers are responsible for obtaining and maintaining all necessary consents from End Users to take the actions above and to allow OpenAI to deliver the Services.
(b) Output indemnity. OpenAI’s indemnification obligations to Enterprise customers under the Agreement include claims that Customer’s use or distribution of Output infringes a third party’s intellectual property right. This indemnity does not apply where: (i) Customer or Customer’s End Users knew or should have known the Output was infringing or likely to infringe, (ii) Customer or Customer’s End Users disabled, ignored, or did not use any relevant citation, filtering or safety features or restrictions provided by OpenAI, (iii) Output was modified, transformed, or used in combination with products or services not provided by or on behalf of OpenAI, (iv) Customer or its End Users did not have the right to use the Input or fine-tuning files to generate the allegedly infringing Output, (v) the claim alleges violation of trademark or related rights based on Customer’s or its End Users’ use of Output in trade or commerce, and (vi) the allegedly infringing Output is from content from a Third Party Offering.
(c) ChatGPT for Healthcare. (i) You should always verify the information provided by ChatGPT for Healthcare and exercise independent professional judgment in decision-making about a patient without relying primarily or solely on the output. Do not use ChatGPT for Healthcare to analyze medical images or patterns/signals from signal acquisition systems or in vitro diagnostic devices (such as an ECG waveforms or genomic sequences). (ii) Customer’s Business Associate and Healthcare Addendum applies to Customer’s use of ChatGPT for Healthcare.
4. Codex and Code Generation
Output generated by code generation features of our Services, including OpenAI Codex, may be subject to third party licenses, including, without limitation, open source licenses.
5. GPTs
Users can create and share access to their own customized versions of ChatGPT called “GPTs”.
For Builders of GPTs:
(a) GPT Content. The information or content that you upload to or include with your GPT (for example your GPT name, instructions, and description) (“GPT Content”) is your Content. As between you and OpenAI, you are solely responsible for your GPT Content, Actions, and configurations that you use or enable to create your GPT as well as any Output that is based on your GPT Content, Actions, and configurations. You must ensure your GPT complies with the Agreement and our Usage Policies.
(b) Distribution and Promotion of GPTs. By sharing your GPT with others, you grant a nonexclusive, worldwide, irrevocable, royalty-free license: (i) to OpenAI to use, test, store, copy, translate, display, modify, distribute, promote, and otherwise make available to other users all or any part of your GPT (including GPT Content); and (ii) to the extent Output from your GPT includes your GPT Content, to users of your GPT to use, store, copy, display, distribute, prepare derivative works of and otherwise use your GPT Content. You will ensure that all information that you publish about your GPT is, at all times, complete, accurate, and not misleading.
(c) Actions. Any API, website, or service that interacts with a GPT (an “Action”) is subject to our App Developer Terms and you are responsible for ensuring that any Action included with your GPT operates in compliance with those terms.
(d) Removal. We may reject or remove any GPT from our Services at any time for any reason without notice to you, such as for legal or security reasons or if your GPT violates our Terms.
For Users of GPTs:
(a) Third Party GPTs. Except where OpenAI is identified as the builder of a GPT, GPTs are created by other users and they may rely on content or third party applications that are not controlled by OpenAI. Use of “GPT” in the name of a GPT created by other users does not imply that OpenAI created, supports or endorses the GPT. Only use GPTs that you know and trust.
(b) Abuse Reporting. You can report GPTs that violate our Usage Policies using our reporting feature within ChatGPT.
(c) Actions. GPTs may allow you to interact with Actions. Those Actions are subject to our terms for Apps and Actions below.
(d) Changes and Removal. OpenAI and creators of GPTs can remove GPTs at any time for any reason without prior notice.
6. Image and Video Capabilities
Our models can accept images and videos as part of Inputs to the Services (“Visual Capabilities”). You may not use Visual Capabilities to assist in identifying a person nor to solicit or infer private or sensitive information about a person. You may not use Visual Capabilities to reproduce the likeness of any person without express consent and all necessary rights. By choosing to share an image or video publicly on the Services, such as by sharing it to the Sora feed or uploading it to create a Sora cameo, you represent you have all necessary rights, and you give OpenAI the right to reproduce, distribute, modify, display and perform it for the purpose of operating and promoting the Services. You also agree to give users the limited right to reproduce and remix that content solely on the Services. Uploading a cameo or sharing an image or video does not give other users any rights to use those materials outside of the Services.
7. Apps and Actions
(a) Overview. Apps and Actions (together “Apps”) allow ChatGPT to send and receive information from a third-party application or website (“Application”). You may take action on an Application through one or more Apps (for example, to request a reservation on a restaurant’s website). You are solely responsible for the actions you take using Apps or adding custom Apps, and you can control whether an App is enabled in your workspace. Any custom App is subject to our App Developer Terms and you are responsible for ensuring that your App and its connected Application operate in compliance with those terms. OpenAI may (but will have no obligation to) review, refuse, or remove Applications from ChatGPT. Third-party Apps are not developed or verified by OpenAI, and may expose you to Applications or content that you may find offensive, inappropriate or objectionable. You agree that you use Apps at your own risk. DO NOT ADD OR ENABLE AN APP UNLESS YOU KNOW AND TRUST THE UNDERLYING APPLICATION AND HAVE REVIEWED ITS TERMS AND PRIVACY POLICY.
(b) App Operation and Content. When you add or enable an App, the Services may send applicable portions of your Content and certain information such as your country and state (“App Data”) via the App to the Application. By using or enabling the App, you authorize and instruct us to send your App Data to the applicable Application, which will be handled in accordance with its terms. We are not responsible for App Data after it has been provided to an Application other than Applications owned by us. The App may retrieve information and content from the Application, which may be included in Output you receive from the Services. This information and content included in the Output is not owned by you or OpenAI, and may be subject to the terms of the Application.
8. Voice Conversations
Voice conversations is a ChatGPT feature that allows you to speak to our models and have them speak back (“ChatGPT Voice Output”). ChatGPT Voice Output is for non-commercial use only and may not be distributed or repackaged as a standalone audio recording or any other sound file. Any rights in Output assigned to you do not include ChatGPT Voice Output.
9. Medical Use
Our Services are not intended for use in the diagnosis or treatment of any health condition. You are responsible for complying with applicable laws for any use of our Services in a medical or healthcare context.
10. Licensed Materials
Some OpenAI Services may involve Customer downloading and installing software, packages, code, containers, or other modules that are delivered as source code, object code, data, and/or other works (“Licensed Materials”) on local machines, private cloud infrastructure, or other customer-managed systems (“Customer Systems”). These terms apply to Customer’s use of the Licensed Materials.
(a) License. OpenAI hereby grants to Customer during the Term a limited non-exclusive license to copy, install, and use the Licensed Materials solely on Customer Systems and in accordance with the Agreement. This license is non-transferable (except in connection with a permitted assignment) and non-sublicensable and will terminate at the end of the Term or upon written notice to Customer. You may not modify, redistribute, or sublicense the Licensed Materials. If any component of the Licensed Materials are offered under an open source license, to the extent the provisions of that license grant Customer additional rights, those provisions will expressly override some terms of the Agreement solely with respect to that component of the Software.
(b) Scope of Use. You may not use the Licensed Materials except in connection with your permitted use of the Services in accordance with the Agreement. Your use of the Licensed Materials must comply at all times with any restrictions applicable to the Services, generally, and must be used in accordance with any applicable documentation. You may access and use the Licensed Materials solely for the purposes of using the Licensed Materials with or connecting to the Services. If you do not agree to these terms, or if you do not have the requisite authority to agree to the Licensed Materials Agreement on behalf of the Customer, you may not view or use the Licensed Materials.
(c) Termination. Upon termination, you must permanently delete the Licensed Materials and all copies thereof.
(d) Incorporation. The Licensed Materials are considered a part of the Services and subject to the disclaimers and limitations of liability set forth therein.
11. ChatGPT Sites
ChatGPT Sites is a feature that enables users to create, publish, and maintain websites or web applications. The use of ChatGPT Sites is subject to the ChatGPT Sites Terms(opens in a new window).
12. OpenAI Academy
OpenAI Academy is a free learning hub and community for users of OpenAI products and services. Use of OpenAI Academy is subject to OpenAI’s Terms of Use and OpenAI Academy’s Terms of Use and Code of Conduct(opens in a new window).
For users with accounts associated with a business or enterprise workspace, the OpenAI Services Agreement or other business or enterprise terms do not apply to use of OpenAI Academy, even if a user uses Sign in with ChatGPT with their workspace account.
If you use an email address or account associated with an organization, including through Sign in with ChatGPT, OpenAI may share information about your OpenAI Academy activity, such as enrollment, engagement, progress, and completion status, with your organization’s owners or administrators.
13. Financial Plugins and ChatGPT for Financial Services
OpenAI’s financial plugins and ChatGPT for Financial Services (together, “Financial Services”) and their Output are for informational purposes only. OpenAI does not provide financial or investment advice through Financial Services.
Data and Output may be inaccurate, delayed, or outdated. Review important information and exercise independent professional judgment before relying on it. Seek advice from a qualified financial advisor where appropriate. You remain responsible for decisions made using Financial Services.
Your use of Financial Services, including third-party data and content, is subject to the Financial Services Terms, including applicable data partner terms, disclaimers, and restrictions on use and redistribution. Your use of credit score services, such as connecting to and accessing credit scores, reports, monitoring, and personalized insights, is also subject to the Credit Score Terms.

--- Content from https://openai.com/enterprise-privacy/ ---

Enterprise privacy at OpenAI
Our commitments
Our commitments provide you with ownership and control over your business data (inputs and outputs from ChatGPT Business, ChatGPT Enterprise, ChatGPT for Healthcare, ChatGPT Edu, ChatGPT for Teachers and our API Platform) and support for your compliance needs.
You own and control your data
We do not train our models on your data by default
You own your inputs and outputs (where allowed by law)
You control how long your data is retained (ChatGPT Enterprise, ChatGPT for Healthcare, ChatGPT Edu)
You control which internal sources are connected
You decide who has access within your organization
Enterprise-level authentication through SAML SSO
Fine-grained control over access and available features
Custom models(opens in a new window) are yours alone to use and are not shared with anyone else
Comprehensive compliance
Successfully completed a SOC 2 audit, confirming that our controls align with industry standards for security and confidentiality
Data encryption at rest (AES-256) and in transit between our customers and us, and between us and our service providers (TLS 1.2+)
Visit our Trust Portal(opens in a new window) to understand more about our security measures

--- Content from https://openai.com/policies/usage-policies/ ---

Usage policies
We aim for our tools to be used safely and responsibly, while maximizing your control over how you use them. In building our Usage Policies, we keep a few important things in mind.
We empower users to innovate with AI. We build AI products that maximize helpfulness and freedom, while ensuring safety. Usage Policies are just one way we set clear expectations for the use of our products within a broader safety ecosystem that sets responsible guardrails across our services. You can learn more about our safety approach and our commitment to customizability, transparency, and intellectual freedom to explore, debate, and create with AI.
Responsible use is a shared priority. We assume the very best of our users. Our terms and policies—including these Usage Policies—set a reasonable bar for acceptable use. Our rules are no substitute for legal requirements, professional duties, or ethical obligations that should influence how people use AI. We hold people accountable for inappropriate use of our services, and breaking or circumventing our rules and safeguards may mean you lose access to our systems or experience other penalties.
We build with safety first. We monitor and enforce policies with privacy safeguards in place and clear review processes. We give developers practical moderation tools(opens in a new window) and guidance so they can support their end users. We publish what our systems can and can’t do, share research and updates, and provide a simple way to report misuse.
We update as we learn. People are using our systems in new ways every day, and we update our rules to ensure they are not overly restrictive or to better protect our users. We reserve all rights to withhold access where we reasonably believe it necessary to protect our service or users or anyone else. You can appeal if you think we have made a mistake enforcing policy, and we will work to make things right. If you’d like to keep up with Usage Policies updates, complete this form.
Your use of OpenAI services must follow these Usage Policies:
Protect people. Everyone has a right to safety and security. So you cannot use our services for:
threats, intimidation, harassment, or defamation
suicide, self-harm, or disordered eating promotion or facilitation
sexual violence or non-consensual intimate content
terrorism or violence, including hate-based violence
weapons development, procurement, or use, including conventional weapons or CBRNE
illicit activities, goods, or services
destruction, compromise, or breach of another’s system or property, including malicious or abusive cyber activity or attempts to infringe on intellectual property rights of others
real money gambling
provision of tailored advice that requires a license, such as legal or medical advice, without appropriate involvement by a licensed professional
unsolicited safety testing
circumventing our safeguards
national security or intelligence purposes without our review and approval
Respect privacy. People are entitled to privacy. So, we don’t allow attempts to compromise the privacy of others, including to aggregate, monitor, profile, or distribute individuals’ private or sensitive information without their authorization. And, you may never use our services for:
facial recognition databases without data subject consent
real-time remote biometric identification in public spaces
use of someone’s likeness, including their photorealistic image or voice, without their consent in ways that could confuse authenticity
evaluation or classification of individuals based on their social behavior, personal traits, or biometric data (including social scoring, profiling, or inferring sensitive attributes)
inference regarding an individual’s emotions in the workplace and educational settings, except when necessary for medical or safety reasons
assessment or prediction of the risk of an individual committing a criminal offense based solely on their personal traits or on profiling
Keep minors safe. Children and teens deserve special protection. Our services are designed to prevent harm and support their well-being, and must never be used to exploit, endanger, or sexualize anyone under 18 years old. We report apparent child sexual abuse material and child endangerment to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. We prohibit use of our services for:
child sexual abuse material (CSAM), whether or not any portion is AI generated
grooming of minors
exposing minors to age-inappropriate content, such as graphic self-harm, sexual, or violent content
promoting unhealthy dieting or exercise behavior to minors
shaming or otherwise stigmatizing the body type or appearance of minors
dangerous challenges for minors
underaged sexual or violent roleplay
underaged access to age-restricted goods or activities
Empower people. People should be able to make decisions about their lives and their communities. So we don’t allow our services to be used to manipulate or deceive people, to interfere with their exercise of human rights, to exploit people’s vulnerabilities, or to interfere with their ability to get an education or access critical services, including any use for:
academic dishonesty
deceit, fraud, scams, spam, or impersonation
political campaigning, lobbying, foreign or domestic election interference, or demobilization activities
automation of high-stakes decisions in sensitive areas without human review
critical infrastructure
education
housing
employment
financial activities and credit
insurance
legal
medical
essential government services
product safety components
national security
migration
law enforcement
Changelog
2025-10-29: We’ve updated our Usage Policies to reflect a universal set of policies across OpenAI products and services.
2025-01-29: We’ve updated our Universal Policies to clarify prohibitions under applicable laws.
2024-01-10: We’ve updated our Usage Policies to be clearer and provide more service-specific guidance.
2023-02-15: We’ve combined our use case and content policies into a single set of usage policies, and have provided more specific guidance on what activity we disallow in industries we’ve considered high risk.
2022-11-09: We no longer require you to register your applications with OpenAI. Instead, we’ll be using a combination of automated and manual methods to monitor for policy violations.
2022-10-25: Updated App Review process (devs no longer need to wait for approval after submitting as long as they comply with our policies). Moved to an outcomes-based approach and updated Safety Best Practices.
2022-06-07: Refactored into categories of applications and corresponding requirements.
2022-03-09: Refactored into “App Review”.
2022-01-19: Simplified copywriting and article writing/editing guidelines.
2021-11-15: Addition of “Content guidelines” section; changes to bullets on almost always approved uses and disallowed uses; renaming document from “Use case guidelines” to “Usage guidelines”.
2021-08-04: Updated with information related to code generation.
2021-03-12: Added detailed case-by-case requirements; small copy and ordering edits.
2021-02-26: Clarified the impermissibility of Tweet and Instagram generators.

--- Content from https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/your-data ---

Understand how OpenAI uses your data, and how you can control it.
Your data is your data. As of March 1, 2023, data sent to the OpenAI API is not used to train or improve OpenAI models (unless you explicitly opt in to share data with us).
Types of data stored with the OpenAI API
When using the OpenAI API, data may be stored as:
- Abuse monitoring logs: Logs generated from your use of the platform, necessary for OpenAI to enforce our Usage Policies and agreements and mitigate harmful uses of AI.
- Application state: Data persisted from some API features in order to fulfill the task or request.
Data retention controls for abuse monitoring
Abuse monitoring logs may contain certain customer content, such as prompts and responses, as well as metadata derived from that customer content, such as classifier outputs. By default, abuse monitoring logs are generated for all API feature usage and retained for up to 30 days, unless longer retention is required by law, or is reasonably necessary to protect our services or any third party from harm.
Eligible customers may have their customer content excluded from these abuse monitoring logs, subject to the limitations below, by getting approved for the Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring controls. Currently, these controls are subject to prior approval by OpenAI and acceptance of additional requirements. Approved customers may select between Modified Abuse Monitoring or Zero Data Retention for their API Organization or project.
Customers who enable Modified Abuse Monitoring or Zero Data Retention are responsible for ensuring their users abide by OpenAI’s policies for safe and responsible use of AI and complying with any moderation and reporting requirements under applicable law.
Get in touch with our sales team to learn more about these offerings and inquire about eligibility.
Modified Abuse Monitoring
Modified Abuse Monitoring excludes customer content (other than image and file inputs in rare cases, as described below) from abuse monitoring logs across all API endpoints, while still allowing the customer to take advantage of the full capabilities of the OpenAI platform.
Zero Data Retention
Zero Data Retention excludes customer content from abuse monitoring logs in the same way as Modified Abuse Monitoring.
Additionally, Zero Data Retention changes some endpoint behavior: the store
parameter for /v1/responses
and v1/chat/completions
will always be treated as false
, even if the request attempts to set the value to true
.
Besides those specific behavior changes, the endpoints and capabilities listed as No for Zero Data Retention Eligible in the table below may still store application state, even if Zero Data Retention is enabled.
ZDR with Private Safety Processing
Zero Data Retention with Private Safety Processing enables OpenAI to perform automated safety monitoring while preserving Zero Data Retention protections. Endpoint and feature limitations listed on this page still apply.
Customers using ZDR with PSP must configure customer-controlled storage and meet additional technical and operational requirements described in the ZDR with Private Safety Processing guide.
Private Retention with Private Safety Processing (fka Eyes Off)
For customers approved for Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring, we reserve the right to make models ineligible for Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring for specific customers, as notified in advance to the impacted customers in writing. In this instance, customer content will be retained in encrypted abuse monitoring logs in OpenAI-managed infrastructure, but such content will be excluded from human review unless required by applicable law. For additional information, see Appendix A of the Private Safety Processing technical whitepaper.
For customers who have executed an OpenAI Business Associate and Healthcare Addendum, once your org ID is provisioned with Private Retention with Private Safety Processing, BAA-eligible endpoints can be used for processing PHI, even if data is retained. Endpoint and feature limitations listed on this page still apply.
Safety Retention
For customers approved for Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring, we reserve the right to make models ineligible for Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring for specific customers if reasonably necessary to investigate or prevent severe risk activity, as notified in advance to the impacted customers in writing. In this instance, we may retain and human review customer content when using these models that our classifiers detect as potentially violating our Usage Policies or your agreement. Otherwise retention will not be affected. For customers who have executed an OpenAI Business Associate and Healthcare Addendum, once your org ID is provisioned with Safety Retention, BAA-eligible endpoints can be used for processing PHI, even if data is retained.
Configuring data retention controls
Once your organization has been approved for data retention controls, you’ll see a Data Retention tab within Settings → Organization → Data controls. From that tab, you can configure data retention controls at both the organization and project level.
- Organization-level controls: Choose between Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring for your entire organization.
- Project-level controls: For each project, select
default
to inherit the organization-level setting, explicitly pick Zero Data Retention or Modified Abuse Monitoring, or select None to disable these controls for that project.
Storage requirements and retention controls per endpoint
The table below indicates when application state is stored for each endpoint. Zero Data Retention eligible endpoints do not retain any customer content for application state, subject to the limitations below. Zero Data Retention ineligible endpoints or capabilities may retain application state when used, even if you have Zero Data Retention enabled.
| Endpoint | Data used for training | Abuse monitoring retention | Application state retention | Zero Data Retention eligible | Private Retention with PSP and Safety Retention eligible |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
/v1/chat/completions |
No | 30 days | None, see below for exceptions | Yes, see below for limitations | Yes, see below for limitations |
/v1/responses |
No | 30 days | None, see below for exceptions | Yes, see below for limitations | Yes, see below for limitations |
/v1/conversations |
No | Until deleted | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/conversations/items |
No | Until deleted | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/chatkit/threads |
No | Until deleted | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/agents |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/assistants |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/threads |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/threads/messages |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/threads/runs |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/threads/runs/steps |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/vector_stores |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/images/generations |
No | 30 days | None | Yes, see below for limitations | No |
/v1/images/edits |
No | 30 days | None | Yes, see below for limitations | No |
/v1/embeddings |
No | 30 days | None | Yes | No |
/v1/audio/transcriptions |
No | None | None | Yes | No |
/v1/audio/translations |
No | None | None | Yes | No |
/v1/audio/speech |
No | 30 days | None | Yes | No |
/v1/files |
No | 30 days | Until deleted* | No | No |
/v1/fine_tuning/jobs |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/evals |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/batches |
No | 30 days | Until deleted | No | No |
/v1/moderations |
No | None | None | Yes | No |
/v1/completions |
No | 30 days | None | Yes | No |
/v1/live/sessions |
No | 30 days | None, or 30 days if stored | Yes, with limitations below | No |
/v1/realtime |
No | 30 days | None | Yes | No |
/v1/chat/completions
- Audio outputs application state is stored for 1 hour to enable multi-turn conversations.
- When Zero Data Retention is enabled for an organization, the
store
parameter will always be treated asfalse
, even if the request attempts to set the value totrue
. - See image and file inputs.
- Prompt caching may store encrypted key/value tensors in GPU-local storage as application state. This data is stored on the local GPU machines and is not retained after the 24-hour expiration. For
gpt-5.5
andgpt-5.5-pro
, settingprompt_cache_retention
toin_memory
returns an error. For GPT-5.6 models and later model families,prompt_cache_options.ttl
controls the minimum cache lifetime, not this maximum application-state retention period. To learn more, see the prompt caching guide.
/v1/responses
- Except as noted below, the Responses API has a 30 day Application State retention period by default, or when the
store
parameter is set totrue
. In those cases, response data will be stored for at least 30 days. - When Zero Data Retention is enabled for an organization, the
store
parameter will always be treated asfalse
, even if the request attempts to set the value totrue
. - Background mode stores response data to disk for roughly 10 minutes to enable polling. For projects using Modified Abuse Monitoring, including enhanced Modified Abuse Monitoring, foreground requests follow standard retention when
store
is omitted or set totrue
. Background responses follow the standard retention period only when the request explicitly setsstore=true
. Ifstore
is omitted or set tofalse
for a background request, the response is deleted after the temporary polling period. - Audio outputs application state is stored for 1 hour to enable multi-turn conversations.
- See image and file inputs.
- MCP servers (used with the remote MCP server tool) are third-party services, and data sent to an MCP server is subject to their data retention policies.
- Hosted containers used by Hosted Shell and Code Interpreter may write temporary application state to the container filesystem (backed by ephemeral block storage) while the container is active. Container data is deleted when the container expires or is explicitly deleted.
- Prompt caching may store encrypted key/value tensors in GPU-local storage as application state. This data is stored on the local GPU machines and is not retained after the 24-hour expiration. For
gpt-5.5
andgpt-5.5-pro
, settingprompt_cache_retention
toin_memory
returns an error. For GPT-5.6 models and later model families,prompt_cache_options.ttl
controls the minimum cache lifetime, not this maximum application-state retention period. To learn more, see the prompt caching guide. - When Zero Data Retention is not enabled for an organization, all queries use extended prompt caching for all supported models.
- For server-side compaction, no data is retained when
store="false"
. - We support Skills in two form factors, both local execution and hosted container-based execution. Hosted skills follow the same container lifecycle as hosted shell: mounted skills and container files remain available while the container is active and are discarded when the container expires or is deleted.
- Data transmitted to third-party services over network connections is subject to their data retention policies.
/v1/assistants
, /v1/threads
, and /v1/vector_stores
- Objects related to the Assistants API are deleted from our servers 30 days after you delete them via the API or the dashboard. Objects that are not deleted via the API or dashboard are retained indefinitely.
/v1/images
- Image generation is Zero Data Retention compatible when using
gpt-image-2.5-sunburst
,gpt-image-2.5-sunburst-2026-09-08
,gpt-image-2.5-flare
,gpt-image-2.5-flare-2026-09-08
,gpt-image-2
,gpt-image-1.5
,gpt-image-1
, andgpt-image-1-mini
.
/v1/files
- Files can be manually deleted via the API or the dashboard, or can be automatically deleted by setting the
expires_after
parameter. See here for more information.
Historical Videos API retention
Before the September 24, 2026 shutdown, the Videos API documentation specified 48 hours for downloading generated videos, followed by 30 days of retention for abuse monitoring. These periods describe the policy documented before shutdown; they do not promise download access after shutdown. See the Videos API shutdown notice.
Image and file inputs
Images and files may be uploaded as inputs to /v1/responses
(including when using the Computer Use tool), /v1/chat/completions
, and /v1/images
. Image and file inputs are scanned for CSAM content upon submission. If the classifier detects potential CSAM content, the image will be retained for manual review, even if Zero Data Retention, Modified Abuse Monitoring, or Private Retention with PSP is enabled.
Web Search
Web Search with live internet access is not HIPAA eligible and is not covered by a BAA. Web Search in offline/cache-only mode (external_web_access: false
) is eligible to be covered by a BAA when used with an API key from a ZDR-enabled project within a ZDR organization. This HIPAA/BAA guidance applies only to the Responses API web_search
tool. Note: Preview variants (web_search_preview
) ignore this parameter and behave as if external_web_access
is true
. We recommend using web_search
.
Data residency controls
Data residency controls are a project configuration option that allow you to configure the location of infrastructure OpenAI uses to provide services.
Contact our sales team to see if you’re eligible for using data residency controls. Data residency endpoints are charged a 10% uplift for models released on or after March 5, 2026, that are eligible for data residency.
How does data residency work?
When data residency is enabled on your account, you can set a region for new projects you create in your account from the available regions listed below. If you use the supported endpoints, models, and snapshots listed below, your customer content (as defined in your services agreement) for that project will be stored at rest in the selected region to the extent the endpoint requires data persistence to function (such as /v1/batches).
If you select a region that supports regional processing, as specifically identified below, the services will perform inference for your Customer Content in the selected region as well.
Data residency does not apply to system data, which may be processed and stored outside the selected region. System data means account data, metadata, and usage data that do not contain Customer Content, which are collected by the services and used to manage and operate the services, such as account information or profiles of end users that directly access the services (for example, your personnel), analytics, usage statistics, billing information, support requests, and structured output schema.
Sub-processors and regional request processing
OpenAI uses sub-processors to provide its services. For requests sent to us.api.openai.com
or eu.api.openai.com
, OpenAI uses Cloudflare Regional Services so that TLS termination and HTTPS decryption occur within the selected processing region.
Limitations
Data residency does not apply to: (1) any transmission or storage of Customer Content outside of the selected region caused by the location of an End User or Customer’s infrastructure when accessing the services; (2) products, services, or content offered by parties other than OpenAI through the Services; or (3) any data other than Customer Content, such as system data.
If your selected Region does not support regional processing, as identified below, OpenAI may also process and temporarily store Customer Content outside of the Region to deliver the services.
Additional requirements for non-US regions
To use data residency with any region other than the United States, you must be approved for abuse monitoring controls, and execute a Modified Retention amendment.
Selecting the United Arab Emirates region requires additional approval. Contact sales for assistance.
How to use data residency
Data residency is configured per-project within your API Organization.
To configure data residency for regional storage, select the appropriate region from the dropdown when creating a new project.
For requests to projects with data residency configured, add the domain prefix as defined in the table below to each request.
Select a processing region per request
As an alternative to creating a region-specific project, you can select regional processing for an individual request by using the prefixed domain with an API key from a project having Global geography.
Existing eligibility and data retention control requirements still apply. The selected endpoint and model must also support regional processing, as shown in the table below.
The following example reuses one client and an API key from a Global project for global, US, and EU requests:
from openai import OpenAI
client = OpenAI()
# No processing constraint.
response = client.responses.create(
model="gpt-5.6-terra",
input="Reply with OK.",
)
print(response.output_text)
# US processing and storage.
response = client.with_options(
base_url="https://us.api.openai.com/v1",
).responses.create(
model="gpt-5.6-terra",
input="Reply with OK.",
)
print(response.output_text)
# EU processing and storage.
response = client.with_options(
base_url="https://eu.api.openai.com/v1",
).responses.create(
model="gpt-5.6-terra",
input="Reply with OK.",
)
print(response.output_text)
Which models and features are eligible for data residency?
The following models and API services are eligible for data residency today for the regions specified below.
Use Support by region to compare regional capabilities and expand the services available in each region. Use API Endpoint, tool and model support for complete model lists and a detailed service view. Support for regional storage does not imply support for regional processing.
For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing for Responses and Chat Completions.
Support by region
Compare regional capabilities and services.
| Region | Availability | Supported services |
|---|---|---|
United States us.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- Yes
| /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorageProcessing /v1/batchesStorageProcessing /v1/chat/completionsStorageProcessing |
Europe (EEA + Switzerland) eu.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- Yes
Requires MAM or ZDR** | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorageProcessing /v1/batchesStorageProcessing gpt-6-astra gpt-5.5-pro-2026-04-23 +30 snapshotsgpt-5.4-pro-2026-03-05 gpt-5.2-pro-2025-12-11 gpt-5-pro-2025-10-06 gpt-5.6-sol gpt-5.6-terra gpt-5.6-luna gpt-5.5-2026-04-23 gpt-5.4-2026-03-05 gpt-5-2025-08-07 gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17 gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17 gpt-5.2-2025-12-11 gpt-5.1-2025-11-13 gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07 gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07 gpt-4.1-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14 o3-2025-04-16 o4-mini-2025-04-16 o1-pro o1-pro-2025-03-19 o3-mini-2025-01-31 o1-2024-12-17 gpt-4o-2024-11-20 gpt-4o-2024-08-06 gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18 gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09 gpt-4-0613 gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 /v1/chat/completionsStorageProcessing |
Australia au.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
Canada ca.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
Japan jp.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
India in.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
Singapore sg.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
South Korea kr.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
United Kingdom gb.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- No
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorage |
United Arab Emirates ae.api.openai.com Text, Audio, Voice, Image* | - Storage
- Yes
- Processing
- Yes
Requires MAM or ZDR | /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speechStorage /v1/batchesStorage /v1/chat/completionsStorageProcessing gpt-5.6-luna gpt-5.5-2026-04-23 +1 snapshotgpt-5.2-2025-12-11 |
United States
us.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
YesModes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image
Supported services
Europe (EEA + Switzerland)
eu.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
YesRequires MAM or ZDR**
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
gpt-6-astra
gpt-5.5-pro-2026-04-23
+30 snapshots
gpt-5.4-pro-2026-03-05
gpt-5.2-pro-2025-12-11
gpt-5-pro-2025-10-06
gpt-5.6-sol
gpt-5.6-terra
gpt-5.6-luna
gpt-5.5-2026-04-23
gpt-5.4-2026-03-05
gpt-5-2025-08-07
gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17
gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17
gpt-5.2-2025-12-11
gpt-5.1-2025-11-13
gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07
gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07
gpt-4.1-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14
o3-2025-04-16
o4-mini-2025-04-16
o1-pro
o1-pro-2025-03-19
o3-mini-2025-01-31
o1-2024-12-17
gpt-4o-2024-11-20
gpt-4o-2024-08-06
gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18
gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09
gpt-4-0613
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
Australia
au.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
Canada
ca.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
Japan
jp.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
India
in.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
Singapore
sg.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
South Korea
kr.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
United Kingdom
gb.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
NoRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
United Arab Emirates
ae.api.openai.com
Storage
YesProcessing
YesRequires MAM or ZDR
Modes: Text, Audio, Voice, Image*
Supported services
gpt-5.6-luna
gpt-5.5-2026-04-23
+1 snapshot
gpt-5.2-2025-12-11
* Image support in these regions requires approval for enhanced Zero Data Retention or enhanced Modified Abuse Monitoring.
** Requires Zero Data Retention, Modified Abuse Monitoring, Private Retention with PSP, or Safety Retention.
API Endpoint, tool and model support
Filter by service, endpoint, tool, or model snapshot.
25 supported services
/v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speech
AudioSupported models
tts-1
whisper-1
gpt-4o-tts
+ 3 model snapshots
gpt-4o-transcribe
gpt-4o-mini-transcribe
gpt-transcribe
/v1/batches
BatchesSupported models
gpt-6-astra
gpt-6-sol
gpt-6-luna
+ 31 model snapshots
gpt-5.5-pro-2026-04-23
gpt-5.4-pro-2026-03-05
gpt-5.2-pro-2025-12-11
gpt-5-pro-2025-10-06
gpt-5.6-sol
gpt-5.6-terra
gpt-5.6-luna
gpt-5.5-2026-04-23
gpt-5.4-2026-03-05
gpt-5-2025-08-07
gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17
gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17
gpt-5.2-2025-12-11
gpt-5.1-2025-11-13
gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07
gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07
gpt-4.1-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14
o3-2025-04-16
o4-mini-2025-04-16
o1-pro
o1-pro-2025-03-19
o3-mini-2025-01-31
o1-2024-12-17
gpt-4o-2024-11-20
gpt-4o-2024-08-06
gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18
gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09
gpt-4-0613
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
Notes
For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing.
/v1/chat/completions
Chat CompletionsSupported models
gpt-6-astra
gpt-6-sol
gpt-6-luna
+ 25 model snapshots
gpt-5.6-sol
gpt-5.6-terra
gpt-5.6-luna
gpt-5.5-2026-04-23
gpt-5.4-2026-03-05
gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17
gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17
gpt-5.2-2025-12-11
gpt-5.1-2025-11-13
gpt-5-2025-08-07
gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07
gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07
gpt-4.1-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14
o3-mini-2025-01-31
o3-2025-04-16
o4-mini-2025-04-16
o1-2024-12-17
gpt-4o-2024-11-20
gpt-4o-2024-08-06
gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18
gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09
gpt-4-0613
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
Notes
For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing.
/v1/embeddings
EmbeddingsSupported models
text-embedding-3-small
text-embedding-3-large
text-embedding-ada-002
/v1/evals
EvalsSupported models
Supported/v1/files
FilesSupported models
Supported/v1/fine_tuning/jobs
Fine-tuningSupported models
gpt-4o-2024-08-06
gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18
gpt-4.1-2025-04-14
+ 1 model snapshot
gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14
/v1/images/edits
ImagesSupported models
gpt-image-2
gpt-image-1
gpt-image-1.5
+ 1 model snapshot
gpt-image-1-mini
/v1/images/generations
ImagesSupported models
gpt-image-2
gpt-image-1
gpt-image-1.5
+ 1 model snapshot
gpt-image-1-mini
/v1/moderations
ModerationSupported models
omni-moderation-latest
/v1/live/sessions
GPT-LiveSupported models
gpt-live-1
/v1/realtime
RealtimeSupported models
gpt-realtime
gpt-realtime-1.5
gpt-realtime-mini
+ 3 model snapshots
gpt-realtime-2
gpt-realtime-2.1
gpt-realtime-2.1-mini
/v1/realtime/transcription_sessions
RealtimeSupported models
gpt-realtime-whisper
gpt-live-transcribe
gpt-transcribe
/v1/realtime/translations
RealtimeSupported models
gpt-realtime-translate
/v1/responses
ResponsesSupported models
gpt-6-astra
gpt-6-sol
gpt-6-luna
+ 31 model snapshots
gpt-5.5-pro-2026-04-23
gpt-5.4-pro-2026-03-05
gpt-5.2-pro-2025-12-11
gpt-5-pro-2025-10-06
gpt-5.6-sol
gpt-5.6-terra
gpt-5.6-luna
gpt-5.5-2026-04-23
gpt-5.4-2026-03-05
gpt-5-2025-08-07
gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17
gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17
gpt-5.2-2025-12-11
gpt-5.1-2025-11-13
gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07
gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07
gpt-4.1-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14
gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14
o3-2025-04-16
o4-mini-2025-04-16
o1-pro
o1-pro-2025-03-19
o3-mini-2025-01-31
o1-2024-12-17
gpt-4o-2024-11-20
gpt-4o-2024-08-06
gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18
gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09
gpt-4-0613
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
Notes
For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing.
/v1/responses File Search
ResponsesSupported models
Supported/v1/responses Web Search
ResponsesSupported models
Supported/v1/vector_stores
Vector storesSupported models
SupportedCode Interpreter tool
ToolsSupported models
SupportedFile Search
ToolsSupported models
SupportedFile Uploads
FilesSupported models
SupportedNotes
Supported when used with base64 file uploads.
Remote MCP server tool
ToolsSupported models
SupportedNotes
MCP servers are third-party services. Data sent to an MCP server is subject to its data residency policies.
Scale Tier
OtherSupported models
SupportedStructured Outputs (excluding schema)
OtherSupported models
SupportedSupported input modalities
OtherSupported models
Text
Image
Audio/Voice
| Endpoint or feature | Service | Supported models | Notes |
|---|---|---|---|
| /v1/audio/transcriptions, /v1/audio/translations, /v1/audio/speech | Audio | tts-1 whisper-1 gpt-4o-tts + 3 model snapshotsgpt-4o-transcribe gpt-4o-mini-transcribe gpt-transcribe | — |
| /v1/batches | Batches | gpt-6-astra gpt-6-sol gpt-6-luna + 31 model snapshotsgpt-5.5-pro-2026-04-23 gpt-5.4-pro-2026-03-05 gpt-5.2-pro-2025-12-11 gpt-5-pro-2025-10-06 gpt-5.6-sol gpt-5.6-terra gpt-5.6-luna gpt-5.5-2026-04-23 gpt-5.4-2026-03-05 gpt-5-2025-08-07 gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17 gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17 gpt-5.2-2025-12-11 gpt-5.1-2025-11-13 gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07 gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07 gpt-4.1-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14 o3-2025-04-16 o4-mini-2025-04-16 o1-pro o1-pro-2025-03-19 o3-mini-2025-01-31 o1-2024-12-17 gpt-4o-2024-11-20 gpt-4o-2024-08-06 gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18 gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09 gpt-4-0613 gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 | For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing. |
| /v1/chat/completions | Chat Completions | gpt-6-astra gpt-6-sol gpt-6-luna + 25 model snapshotsgpt-5.6-sol gpt-5.6-terra gpt-5.6-luna gpt-5.5-2026-04-23 gpt-5.4-2026-03-05 gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17 gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17 gpt-5.2-2025-12-11 gpt-5.1-2025-11-13 gpt-5-2025-08-07 gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07 gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07 gpt-4.1-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14 o3-mini-2025-01-31 o3-2025-04-16 o4-mini-2025-04-16 o1-2024-12-17 gpt-4o-2024-11-20 gpt-4o-2024-08-06 gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18 gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09 gpt-4-0613 gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 | For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing. |
| /v1/embeddings | Embeddings | text-embedding-3-small text-embedding-3-large text-embedding-ada-002 | — |
| /v1/evals | Evals | Supported | — |
| /v1/files | Files | Supported | — |
| /v1/fine_tuning/jobs | Fine-tuning | gpt-4o-2024-08-06 gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18 gpt-4.1-2025-04-14 + 1 model snapshotgpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14 | — |
| /v1/images/edits | Images | gpt-image-2 gpt-image-1 gpt-image-1.5 + 1 model snapshotgpt-image-1-mini | — |
| /v1/images/generations | Images | gpt-image-2 gpt-image-1 gpt-image-1.5 + 1 model snapshotgpt-image-1-mini | — |
| /v1/moderations | Moderation | omni-moderation-latest | — |
| /v1/live/sessions | GPT-Live | gpt-live-1 | — |
| /v1/realtime | Realtime | gpt-realtime gpt-realtime-1.5 gpt-realtime-mini + 3 model snapshotsgpt-realtime-2 gpt-realtime-2.1 gpt-realtime-2.1-mini | — |
| /v1/realtime/transcription_sessions | Realtime | gpt-realtime-whisper gpt-live-transcribe gpt-transcribe | — |
| /v1/realtime/translations | Realtime | gpt-realtime-translate | — |
| /v1/responses | Responses | gpt-6-astra gpt-6-sol gpt-6-luna + 31 model snapshotsgpt-5.5-pro-2026-04-23 gpt-5.4-pro-2026-03-05 gpt-5.2-pro-2025-12-11 gpt-5-pro-2025-10-06 gpt-5.6-sol gpt-5.6-terra gpt-5.6-luna gpt-5.5-2026-04-23 gpt-5.4-2026-03-05 gpt-5-2025-08-07 gpt-5.4-mini-2026-03-17 gpt-5.4-nano-2026-03-17 gpt-5.2-2025-12-11 gpt-5.1-2025-11-13 gpt-5-mini-2025-08-07 gpt-5-nano-2025-08-07 gpt-4.1-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-mini-2025-04-14 gpt-4.1-nano-2025-04-14 o3-2025-04-16 o4-mini-2025-04-16 o1-pro o1-pro-2025-03-19 o3-mini-2025-01-31 o1-2024-12-17 gpt-4o-2024-11-20 gpt-4o-2024-08-06 gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18 gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09 gpt-4-0613 gpt-3.5-turbo-0125 | For GPT-6 Sol and Luna, EU data residency is available only with Standard processing. |
| /v1/responses File Search | Responses | Supported | — |
| /v1/responses Web Search | Responses | Supported | — |
| /v1/vector_stores | Vector stores | Supported | — |
| Code Interpreter tool | Tools | Supported | — |
| File Search | Tools | Supported | — |
| File Uploads | Files | Supported | Supported when used with base64 file uploads. |
| Remote MCP server tool | Tools | Supported | MCP servers are third-party services. Data sent to an MCP server is subject to its data residency policies. |
| Scale Tier | Other | Supported | — |
| Structured Outputs (excluding schema) | Other | Supported | — |
| Supported input modalities | Other | Text Image Audio/Voice | — |
Endpoint limitations
/v1/chat/completions
- Cannot set store=true in non-US regions.
- Extended prompt caching in regions that do not support Regional processing may require that OpenAI process and temporarily store Customer Content outside of the Region to deliver the services.
/v1/responses
- Extended prompt caching in regions that do not support Regional processing may require that OpenAI process and temporarily store Customer Content outside of the Region to deliver the services.
/v1/live/sessions
GPT-Live sessions are eligible for Zero Data Retention. With Zero Data Retention enabled, store
is treated as false
, even if a request sets it to true
.
Session storage is disabled by default. For projects with session storage enabled, store: true
retains the completed session recording for 30 days so that it can be downloaded or used to start a forked session. Stored sessions and their index expire after 30 days. Recording downloads and forking require a data policy that permits persistence and are not available with Zero Data Retention.
Setting store: false
on a fork prevents storage of the new session; it does not delete the source recording or remove the authorization required to read it. The API does not provide a public stored-session deletion endpoint.
GPT-Live supports data residency in the United States and Europe. Delegated backend models and tools have their own data controls; check the applicable endpoint and feature entries on this page.
/v1/realtime
Tracing is not currently EU data residency compliant for /v1/realtime
.
Enterprise Key Management (EKM)
Enterprise Key Management (EKM) allows you to encrypt your customer content at OpenAI using keys managed by your own external Key Management System (KMS).
Once configured, EKM applies to any application state created during your use of the platform. See the EKM help center article for more information about how EKM works, and how to integrate with your KMS provider.
EKM limitations
OpenAI supports Bring Your Own Key (BYOK) encryption with external accounts in AWS KMS, Google Cloud (GCP), and Azure Key Vault. If your organization leverages a different key management service, those keys need to be synced to one of the supported cloud KMS providers for use with OpenAI.
EKM does not support the following products. An attempt to use these endpoints in a project with EKM enabled will return an error.
- Assistants (/v1/assistants)
- Vision fine tuning