--- Content from https://openai.com/policies/row-terms-of-use/ ---

Terms of Use
Effective: January 1, 2026 (Previous version)
Thank you for using OpenAI!
These Terms of Use apply to your use of ChatGPT, DALL·E, and OpenAI’s other services for individuals, along with any associated software applications and websites (all together, “Services”). These Terms form an agreement between you and OpenAI OpCo, LLC, a Delaware company, and they include our Service Terms and important provisions for resolving disputes through arbitration. By using our Services, you agree to these Terms.
If you reside in the European Economic Area, Switzerland, or the UK, your use of the Services is governed by these terms.
Our Business Terms govern use of ChatGPT Enterprise, our APIs, and our other services for businesses and developers.
Our Privacy Policy explains how we collect and use personal information. Although it does not form part of these Terms, it is an important document that you should read.
Who we are
OpenAI is an AI research and deployment company. Our mission is to ensure that artificial general intelligence benefits all of humanity. For more information about OpenAI, please visit https://openai.com/about.
Registration and access
Minimum age. You must be at least 13 years old or the minimum age required in your country to consent to use the Services. If you are under 18 you must have your parent or legal guardian’s permission to use the Services.
Registration. You must provide accurate and complete information to register for an account to use our Services. You may not share your account credentials or make your account available to anyone else and are responsible for all activities that occur under your account. If you create an account or use the Services on behalf of another person or entity, you must have the authority to accept these Terms on their behalf.
Using our Services
What you can do. Subject to your compliance with these Terms, you may access and use our Services. In using our Services, you must comply with all applicable laws as well as our Sharing & Publication Policy, Usage Policies, and any other documentation, guidelines, or policies we make available to you.
What you cannot do. You may not use our Services for any illegal, harmful, or abusive activity. For example, you may not:
Use our Services in a way that infringes, misappropriates or violates anyone’s rights.
Modify, copy, lease, sell or distribute any of our Services.
Attempt to or assist anyone to reverse engineer, decompile or discover the source code or underlying components of our Services, including our models, algorithms, or systems (except to the extent this restriction is prohibited by applicable law).
Automatically or programmatically extract data or Output (defined below).
Represent that Output was human-generated when it was not.
Interfere with or disrupt our Services, including circumvent any rate limits or restrictions or bypass any protective measures or safety mitigations we put on our Services.
Use Output to develop models that compete with OpenAI.
Software. Our Services may allow you to download software, such as mobile applications, which may update automatically to ensure you’re using the latest version. Our software may include open source software that is governed by its own licenses that we’ve made available to you.
Corporate domains. If you create an account using an email address owned by an organization (for example, your employer), that account may be added to the organization's business account with us, in which case we will provide notice to you so that you can help facilitate the transfer of your account (unless your organization has already provided notice to you that it may monitor and control your account). Once your account is transferred, the organization’s administrator will be able to control your account, including being able to access Content (defined below) and restrict or remove your access to the account.
Third party Services. Our services may include third party software, products, or services, (“Third Party Services”) and some parts of our Services, like our browse feature, may include output from those services (“Third Party Output”). Third Party Services and Third Party Output are subject to their own terms, and we are not responsible for them.
Feedback. We appreciate your feedback, and you agree that we may use it without restriction or compensation to you.
Content
Your content. You may provide input to the Services (“Input”), and receive output from the Services based on the Input (“Output”). Input and Output are collectively “Content.” You are responsible for Content, including ensuring that it does not violate any applicable law or these Terms. You represent and warrant that you have all rights, licenses, and permissions needed to provide Input to our Services.
Ownership of content. As between you and OpenAI, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, you (a) retain your ownership rights in Input and (b) own the Output. We hereby assign to you all our right, title, and interest, if any, in and to Output.
Similarity of content. Due to the nature of our Services and artificial intelligence generally, output may not be unique and other users may receive similar output from our Services. Our assignment above does not extend to other users’ output or any Third Party Output.
Our use of content. We may use Content to provide, maintain, develop, and improve our Services, comply with applicable law, enforce our terms and policies, and keep our Services safe. If you're using ChatGPT through Apple's integrations, see this Help Center article(opens in a new window) for how we handle your Content.
Opt out. If you do not want us to use your Content to train our models, you can opt out by following the instructions in this article. Please note that in some cases this may limit the ability of our Services to better address your specific use case.
Accuracy. Artificial intelligence and machine learning are rapidly evolving fields of study. We are constantly working to improve our Services to make them more accurate, reliable, safe, and beneficial. Given the probabilistic nature of machine learning, use of our Services may, in some situations, result in Output that does not accurately reflect real people, places, or facts.
When you use our Services you understand and agree:
Output may not always be accurate. You should not rely on Output from our Services as a sole source of truth or factual information, or as a substitute for professional advice.
You must evaluate Output for accuracy and appropriateness for your use case, including using human review as appropriate, before using or sharing Output from the Services.
You must not use any Output relating to a person for any purpose that could have a legal or material impact on that person, such as making credit, educational, employment, housing, insurance, legal, medical, or other important decisions about them.
Our Services may provide incomplete, incorrect, or offensive Output that does not represent OpenAI’s views. If Output references any third party products or services, it doesn’t mean the third party endorses or is affiliated with OpenAI.
Our IP rights
We and our affiliates own all rights, title, and interest in and to the Services. You may only use our name and logo in accordance with our Brand Guidelines.
Paid accounts
Billing. If you purchase any Services, you will provide complete and accurate billing information, including a valid payment method. For paid subscriptions, we will automatically charge your payment method on each agreed-upon periodic renewal until you cancel. You’re responsible for all applicable taxes, and we’ll charge tax when required. If your payment cannot be completed, we may downgrade your account or suspend your access to our Services until payment is received.
Service credits. You can pay for some Services in advance by purchasing service credits. All service credits are subject to our Service Credit Terms.
Cancellation. You can cancel(opens in a new window) your paid subscription at any time. Payments are non-refundable, except where required by law. These Terms do not override any mandatory local laws regarding your cancellation rights.
Changes. We may change our prices from time to time. If we increase our subscription prices, we will give you at least 30 days’ notice and any price increase will take effect on your next renewal so that you can cancel if you do not agree to the price increase.
Termination and suspension
Termination. You are free to stop using our Services at any time. We reserve the right to suspend or terminate your access to our Services or delete your account if we determine:
You breached these Terms or our Usage Policies.
We must do so to comply with the law.
Your use of our Services could cause risk or harm to OpenAI, our users, or anyone else.
We also may terminate your account if it has been inactive for over a year and you do not have a paid account. If we do, we will provide you with advance notice.
Appeals. If you believe we have suspended or terminated your account in error, you can file an appeal with us by contacting our Support team(opens in a new window).
Discontinuation of Services
We may decide to discontinue our Services, but if we do, we will give you advance notice and a refund for any prepaid, unused Services.
Disclaimer of warranties
OUR SERVICES ARE PROVIDED “AS IS.” EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT PROHIBITED BY LAW, WE AND OUR AFFILIATES AND LICENSORS MAKE NO WARRANTIES (EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE) WITH RESPECT TO THE SERVICES, AND DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND ANY WARRANTIES ARISING OUT OF ANY COURSE OF DEALING OR TRADE USAGE. WE DO NOT WARRANT THAT THE SERVICES WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, ACCURATE OR ERROR FREE, OR THAT ANY CONTENT WILL BE SECURE OR NOT LOST OR ALTERED.
YOU ACCEPT AND AGREE THAT ANY USE OF OUTPUTS FROM OUR SERVICE IS AT YOUR SOLE RISK AND YOU WILL NOT RELY ON OUTPUT AS A SOLE SOURCE OF TRUTH OR FACTUAL INFORMATION, OR AS A SUBSTITUTE FOR PROFESSIONAL ADVICE.
Limitation of liability
NEITHER WE NOR ANY OF OUR AFFILIATES OR LICENSORS WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR EXEMPLARY DAMAGES, INCLUDING DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, GOODWILL, USE, OR DATA OR OTHER LOSSES, EVEN IF WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. OUR AGGREGATE LIABILITY UNDER THESE TERMS WILL NOT EXCEED THE GREATER OF THE AMOUNT YOU PAID FOR THE SERVICE THAT GAVE RISE TO THE CLAIM DURING THE 12 MONTHS BEFORE THE LIABILITY AROSE OR ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100). THE LIMITATIONS IN THIS SECTION APPLY ONLY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
Some countries and states do not allow the disclaimer of certain warranties or the limitation of certain damages, so some or all of the terms above may not apply to you, and you may have additional rights. In that case, these Terms only limit our responsibilities to the maximum extent permissible in your country of residence.
OPENAI’S AFFILIATES, SUPPLIERS, LICENSORS, AND DISTRIBUTORS ARE INTENDED THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES OF THIS SECTION.
Indemnity
If you are a business or organization, to the extent permitted by law, you will indemnify and hold harmless us, our affiliates, and our personnel, from and against any costs, losses, liabilities, and expenses (including attorneys’ fees) from third party claims arising out of or relating to your use of the Services and Content or any violation of these Terms.
Dispute resolution
YOU AND OPENAI AGREE TO THE FOLLOWING MANDATORY ARBITRATION AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER PROVISIONS:
MANDATORY ARBITRATION. You and OpenAI agree to resolve any claims arising out of or relating to these Terms or our Services, regardless of when the claim arose, even if it was before these Terms existed (a “Dispute”), through final and binding arbitration. You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days of account creation or of any updates to these arbitration terms within 30 days after the update has taken effect by filling out this form. If you opt out of an update, the last set of agreed upon arbitration terms will apply.
Informal dispute resolution. We would like to understand and try to address your concerns prior to formal legal action. Before either of us files a claim against the other, we both agree to try to resolve the Dispute informally. You agree to do so by sending us notice through this form. We will do so by sending you notice to the email address associated with your account. If we are unable to resolve a Dispute within 60 days, either of us has the right to initiate arbitration. We also both agree to attend an individual settlement conference if either party requests one during this time. Any statute of limitations will be tolled during this informal resolution process.
Arbitration forum. If we are unable to resolve the Dispute, either of us may commence arbitration with National Arbitration and Mediation (“NAM”) under its Comprehensive Dispute Resolution Rules and Procedures and/or Supplemental Rules for Mass Arbitration Filings, as applicable (available here(opens in a new window)).
OpenAI will not seek attorneys’ fees and costs in arbitration unless the arbitrator determines that your claim is frivolous. The activities described in these Terms involve interstate commerce and the Federal Arbitration Act will govern the interpretation and enforcement of these arbitration terms and any arbitration.
Arbitration procedures. The arbitration will be conducted by videoconference if possible, but if the arbitrator determines a hearing should be conducted in person, the location will be mutually agreed upon, in the county where you reside, or as determined by the arbitrator, unless the batch arbitration process applies. The arbitration will be conducted by a sole arbitrator. The arbitrator will be either a retired judge or an attorney licensed to practice law in the state of California. The arbitrator will have exclusive authority to resolve any Dispute, except the state or federal courts of San Francisco, California have the authority to determine any Dispute about enforceability, validity of the class action waiver, or requests for public injunctive relief, as set out below. Any settlement offer amounts will not be disclosed to the arbitrator by either party until after the arbitrator determines the final award, if any. The arbitrator has the authority to grant motions dispositive of all or part of any Dispute.
Exceptions. This section does not require informal dispute resolution or arbitration of the following claims: (i) individual claims brought in small claims court; and (ii) injunctive or other equitable relief to stop unauthorized use or abuse of the Services or intellectual property infringement or misappropriation.
CLASS AND JURY TRIAL WAIVERS. You and OpenAI agree that Disputes must be brought on an individual basis only, and may not be brought as a plaintiff or class member in any purported class, consolidated, or representative proceeding. Class arbitrations, class actions, and representative actions are prohibited. Only individual relief is available. The parties agree to sever and litigate in court any request for public injunctive relief after completing arbitration for the underlying claim and all other claims. This does not prevent either party from participating in a class-wide settlement. You and OpenAI knowingly and irrevocably waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding, or counterclaim.
Batch arbitration. If 25 or more claimants represented by the same or similar counsel file demands for arbitration raising substantially similar Disputes within 90 days of each other, then you and OpenAI agree that NAM will administer them in batches of up to 50 claimants each (“Batch”), unless there are less than 50 claimants in total or after batching, which will comprise a single Batch. NAM will administer each Batch as a single consolidated arbitration with one arbitrator, one set of arbitration fees, and one hearing held by videoconference or in a location decided by the arbitrator for each Batch. If any part of this section is found to be invalid or unenforceable as to a particular claimant or Batch, it will be severed and arbitrated in individual proceedings.
Severability. If any part of these arbitration terms is found to be illegal or unenforceable, the remainder will remain in effect, except that if a finding of partial illegality or unenforceability would allow class arbitration, class action, or representative action, this entire dispute resolution section will be unenforceable in its entirety.
Copyright complaints
If you believe that your intellectual property rights have been infringed, please send notice to the address below or fill out this form. We may delete or disable content that we believe violates these Terms or is alleged to be infringing and will terminate accounts of repeat infringers where appropriate.
OpenAI OpCo, LLC
1455 3rd Street
San Francisco, CA 94158
Attn: General Counsel / Copyright Agent
Written claims concerning copyright infringement must include the following information:
A physical or electronic signature of the person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright interest
A description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed upon
A description of where the allegedly infringing material is located on our site so we can find it
Your address, telephone number, and e-mail address
A statement by you that you have a good-faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law
A statement by you that the above information in your notice is accurate and, under penalty of perjury, that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner’s behalf
General Terms
Assignment. You may not assign or transfer any rights or obligations under these Terms and any attempt to do so will be void. We may assign our rights or obligations under these Terms to any affiliate, subsidiary, or successor in interest of any business associated with our Services.
Changes to these Terms or our Services. We are continuously working to develop and improve our Services. We may update these Terms or our Services accordingly from time to time. For example, we may make changes to these Terms or the Services due to:
Changes to the law or regulatory requirements.
Security or safety reasons.
Circumstances beyond our reasonable control.
Changes we make in the usual course of developing our Services.
To adapt to new technologies.
We will give you at least 30 days advance notice of changes to these Terms that materially adversely impact you either via email or an in-product notification. All other changes will be effective as soon as we post them to our website. If you do not agree to the changes, you must stop using our Services.
Delay in enforcing these Terms. Our failure to enforce a provision is not a waiver of our right to do so later. Except as provided in the dispute resolution section above, if any portion of these Terms is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, that portion will be enforced to the maximum extent permissible and it will not affect the enforceability of any other terms.
Trade controls. You must comply with all applicable trade laws, including sanctions and export control laws. Our Services may not be used in or for the benefit of, or exported or re-exported to (a) any U.S. embargoed country or territory or (b) any individual or entity with whom dealings are prohibited or restricted under applicable trade laws. Our Services may not be used for any end use prohibited by applicable trade laws, and your Input may not include material or information that requires a government license for release or export.
Entire agreement. These Terms contain the entire agreement between you and OpenAI regarding the Services and, other than any Service-specific terms, supersedes any prior or contemporaneous agreements between you and OpenAI.
Governing law. California law will govern these Terms except for its conflicts of laws principles. Except as provided in the dispute resolution section above, all claims arising out of or relating to these Terms will be brought exclusively in the federal or state courts of San Francisco, California.

--- Content from https://openai.com/policies/row-privacy-policy/ ---

Privacy policy
For individuals in the European Economic Area, United Kingdom, and Switzerland, you can read this version of our Privacy Policy. For individuals in the United States you can read this version of our Privacy Policy.
For individuals in the Republic of Korea, please refer to the Korea Addendum.
At OpenAI, our mission is to ensure that artificial general intelligence benefits everyone. We build tools like ChatGPT and Sora to help people learn, create, and solve problems. We at OpenAI (together with our affiliates, “OpenAI”, “we”, “our” or “us”) are committed to respecting your privacy and are strongly committed to keeping secure any information we obtain from you or about you. This Privacy Policy describes our practices with respect to personal data that we collect from or about you, and how we use it when you use our website, applications, and services (collectively, “Services”).
This Privacy Policy does not apply to content that we process on behalf of customers of our business offerings, such as our API. Our use of that data is governed by our customer agreements covering access to and use of those offerings.
For information about how we collect and use training information to develop our language models that power ChatGPT and other Services, and your choices with respect to that information, please see this policy as well as this help center article(opens in a new window).
We collect personal data relating to you (“Personal Data”) as follows:
Personal Data You Provide: We collect Personal Data if you create an account to use our Services or communicate with us as follows:
Account Information: When you create an account with us, we will collect information associated with your account, including your name, contact information, account credentials, date of birth, payment information, and transaction history, (collectively, “Account Information”). Some of our Services may also allow you to upload a profile picture, a username, or other information as part of your Account Information.
User Content: We collect Personal Data that you provide in the input to our Services (“Content”), including your prompts and other content you upload, such as files(opens in a new window), images(opens in a new window), audio and video(opens in a new window), Sora characters(opens in a new window), and data from connected services(opens in a new window), depending on the features you use. Some of our Services allow you to interact with other users, such as post, comment, or send messages, and we treat those interactions as Content, too.
Communication Information: If you communicate with us, such as via email or our pages on social media sites, we may collect Personal Data like your name, contact information, and the contents of the messages you send (“Communication Information”).
Contact Data: If you choose to connect your device contacts, we upload information from your device address books and check which of your contacts also use our Services. If any of your contacts aren’t yet using our Services, we’ll update you if they sign up for our Services later. Learn more(opens in a new window) about connecting your contacts and about how we use uploaded contact information(opens in a new window) of people who don’t use our Services.
Other Information You Provide: We collect other information that you provide to us, such as when you participate in our events or surveys, or when you provide us or a vendor operating on our behalf with information to establish your identity or age (collectively, “Other Information You Provide”).
Personal Data We Receive from Your Use of the Services: When you visit, use, or interact with the Services, we receive the following information about your visit, use, or interactions:
Log Data: We collect information that your browser or device automatically sends when you use our Services. Log data includes your Internet Protocol address, browser type and settings, the date and time of your request, and how you interact with our Services.
Usage Data: We collect information about your use and activity across the Services, such as the types of content that you view or engage with, the features you use and the actions you take, when you submit feedback to a model response, the people with whom you interact, as well as your time zone, country, the dates and times of access, user agent and version, type of computer or mobile device, and your computer connection. If you use the Atlas browser we may also collect your browser data according to your controls(opens in a new window) and use of the service.
Device Information: We collect information about the device you use to access the Services, such as the name of the device, operating system, device identifiers, and browser you are using. Information collected depends on the type of device you use and its settings.
Location Information: We determine the general area from which your device accesses our Services based on information like its IP address for security reasons and to make your product experience better, for example to protect your account by detecting unusual login activity or to provide more accurate responses. In addition, some of our Services allow you to choose to provide more precise location information from your device, such as location information from your device’s GPS.
Cookies and Similar Technologies: We use cookies and similar technologies to operate and administer our Services, and improve your experience. We store some of the information described in this Policy with cookies, for example to help maintain your preferences across sessions if you’re not logged in, or to assist with authentication and customer support. For details about our use of cookies, please read our Cookie Notice.
Information We Receive from Other Sources: We receive information from other sources, such as our trusted security and safety partners to protect safety and prevent fraud, abuse, and other threats to our Services, and from marketing vendors who provide us with information about potential customers of our business services.
We also collect information from other sources, like information that is publicly available on the internet, to develop the models that power our Services. For more information on the sources of information used to develop the models that power ChatGPT and other Services, please see this help center article(opens in a new window).
We use Personal Data for the following purposes:
To provide, analyse, and maintain our Services, for example to respond to your questions for ChatGPT;
To improve and develop our Services and conduct research, for example to develop new features;
To personalize and customize your experience across our Services, for example to provide you with more relevant Content;
To communicate with you, including to respond to your questions, and send you information about our Services and events, for example about changes or improvements to the Services;
Identify your contacts who use our Services when you choose to connect your contacts and update you if they join our Services later;
To prevent fraud, illegal activity, or misuses of our Services, and to protect the security of our systems and Services, including by monitoring any Content submitted or exchanged on our platforms (learn more here); and
To comply with legal obligations and to protect the rights, privacy, safety, or property of our users, OpenAI, or third parties, for instance to prevent harm to you or others, or to estimate your age to give you an age-appropriate experience.
We also aggregate or de-identify Personal Data so that it no longer identifies you and use this information for the purposes described above, such as to analyze the way our Services are being used, to improve and add features to them, and to conduct research. We will maintain and use de-identified information in de-identified form and not attempt to reidentify the information, unless required by law.
As noted above, we may use Content you provide us to improve our Services, for example to train the models that power ChatGPT. Read our instructions(opens in a new window) on how you can opt out of our use of your Content to train our models.
We disclose your Personal Data in the following circumstances:
Vendors and Service Providers: To assist us in meeting business operations needs and to perform certain services and functions, we disclose Personal Data to vendors and service providers, including providers of hosting services, customer service vendors, cloud services, content delivery services, support and safety services, email communication software, web analytics services, payment and transaction processors, search and shopping providers, and information technology providers. We also work with service providers who help us with age and identity verification, and you can learn more here(opens in a new window). Based on our instructions, these parties will access, process, or store Personal Data only in the course of performing their duties to us.
Business Transfers: If we are involved in strategic transactions, reorganization, bankruptcy, receivership, or transition of service to another provider (collectively, a “Transaction”), your Personal Data may be disclosed in the diligence process with counterparties and others assisting with the Transaction and transferred to a successor or affiliate as part of that Transaction along with other assets.
Government Authorities or Other Third Parties: We may share your Personal Data, including information about your interaction with our Services, with government authorities, industry peers, or other third parties in compliance with the law (i) if required to do so to comply with a legal obligation, or in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to comply with a legal obligation, (ii) to protect and defend our rights or property, (iii) if we determine, in our sole discretion, that there is a violation of our terms, policies, or the law; (iv) to detect or prevent fraud or other illegal activity; (v) to protect the safety, security, and integrity of our products, employees, users, or the public, or (vi) to protect against legal liability.
Affiliates: We disclose Personal Data to our affiliates, meaning an entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with OpenAI. Our affiliates may use this Personal Data in a manner consistent with this policy.
Business Account Administrators: When you join a ChatGPT Enterprise or business account, the administrators of that account may access and control your OpenAI account, including being able to access your Content. In addition, if you create an account using an email address belonging to your employer or another organization, we may share the fact that you have an account and certain account information, such as your email address, with your employer or organization to, for example, enable you to be added to their business account.
Parent or Guardian of a Teen: Teen users and their parents or guardians can choose to link their accounts, allowing the parent or guardian to manage certain settings, and receive alerts if we detect a serious safety concern. These accounts can be unlinked at any time. Learn more(opens in a new window) about account linking.
Other Users and Third Parties You Interact or Share Information With: Certain Services allow you to interact or share information with other users or third parties. For example, you can share content like ChatGPT conversations(opens in a new window) or Sora videos(opens in a new window) and characters(opens in a new window), or share information with third-party search(opens in a new window) and shopping(opens in a new window) partners. Information you share with third-party partners is governed by their own terms and privacy policies, and you should make sure you understand those terms and policies before sharing information with them.
We also aggregate or de-identify Personal Data so that it no longer identifies you and share it with third parties for the purposes described above, such as to help improve our Services.
We’ll retain your Personal Data for only as long as we need in order to provide our Services to you, or for other legitimate business purposes such as resolving disputes, safety and security reasons, or complying with our legal obligations. How long we retain Personal Data depends on the type of data, how we use it, and in many cases your settings:
Information we retain until you delete it: Some of our Services allow you to delete Personal Data stored in your account. For example, you can delete specific, or all, of your ChatGPT conversations, delete specific Saved Memories(opens in a new window), or delete your account. Once you choose to delete Personal Data, we will remove it from our systems within 30 days unless we need to retain it for longer as described below, or it has already been de-identified and disassociated from your account when you allow us to use your Content to improve our models(opens in a new window).
Information we delete automatically: In some cases, Personal Data will be deleted automatically. For example, Temporary Chats(opens in a new window) will be automatically deleted within 30 days (unless we have to retain them for safety or legal reasons, as described further below), and your Atlas incognito browsing history(opens in a new window) won’t be saved after you end your session.
Information we retain for longer for legitimate security, safety, or legal reasons: In some cases, we need to retain Personal Data for longer even after you delete it, for example because we are legally required to, to address fraud and abuse, for security reasons, or for financial record-keeping purposes. For instance:
If specific Content, or your account, is banned because of violations of our usage policies, we may retain that data for to protect our services from fraud, abuse, or other violations of our policies;
If we are legally required to retain your data (for instance, we receive a lawful subpoena) then we may retain it for the duration of the relevant legal or regulatory obligation;
When we are a party to a financial transaction (for instance, when we process your payment for a ChatGPT Plus or Pro account, or facilitate a purchase on ChatGPT), we may retain payment and transaction related information to meet our accounting, dispute resolution, and regulatory compliance purposes;
When you ask us to delete your Personal Data, we retain the audit record of the erasure request to be able to verify that we have complied with the request.
In determining these retention periods, we consider a number of factors, such as:
Our purpose for processing the Personal Data (such as whether we need to retain it to provide our Services);
The amount, nature, and sensitivity of the information;
The potential risk of harm from unauthorized use or disclosure;
Any legal requirements that we are subject to.
Our Services provide you with a number of controls over your Personal Data and how it is used and retained. You can always change these settings in your account. These include the following controls:
You can easily choose whether your Content can be used to improve and train our models(opens in a new window).
You can decide whether we will remember details between chats to make Content more personalized and relevant.
You can export your ChatGPT history and data in your account’s data controls.
You can delete or archive chats in ChatGPT, or delete your account entirely.
If you enable Temporary Chat(opens in a new window) in ChatGPT, those conversations with ChatGPT will not appear in your history or be used to improve OpenAI’s models.
Depending on applicable law, you may be able to choose which cookies are used when you use our Services.
If you use the Atlas browser, you can delete your browsing history or choose to browse the web in incognito mode, which helps keep your browsing private from other people who use your device.
You can unsubscribe from marketing communications you receive from us by using the choices provided in those communications.
You can find more information on data controls here(opens in a new window) and by visiting privacy.openai.com(opens in a new window).
Depending on where you live, you may have certain statutory rights in relation to your Personal Data. For example, you may have the right to:
Access your Personal Data and information relating to how it is processed.
Rectify or update your Personal Data
Delete your Personal Data from our records.
Restrict how we process your Personal Data.
Transfer your Personal Data to a third party (right to data portability).
Withdraw your consent—where we rely on consent as the legal basis for processing.
Lodge a complaint with your local data protection authority.
You can exercise some of these rights through your OpenAI account using the tools described in the Data controls section, or you can submit your request through privacy.openai.com(opens in a new window) or to dsar@openai.com. You can contact our data protection officer at dpo@openai.com.
A note about accuracy: Services like ChatGPT generate responses by reading a user’s request and, in response, predicting the words most likely to appear next. In some cases, the words most likely to appear next may not be the most factually accurate. For this reason, you should not rely on the factual accuracy of output from our models. If you notice that ChatGPT output contains factually inaccurate information about you and you would like to request a correction or removal of the information, you can submit these requests through privacy.openai.com(opens in a new window) or to dsar@openai.com, and we will consider your request based on applicable law and the technical capabilities of our models.
For information on how to exercise your rights with respect to data we have collected from the internet to train our models, please see this help center article(opens in a new window).
OpenAI processes your Personal Data for the purposes described in this policy on servers located in various jurisdictions, including processing and storing your Personal Data in our facilities and servers in the United States, or in countries or territories where our affiliates and partners or our vendors and service providers are located. While data protection law varies by country, we apply the protections described in this policy to your Personal Data regardless of where it is processed, and only transfer that data pursuant to legally valid transfer mechanisms.
Our Services are not directed to, or intended for, children under 13. We do not knowingly collect Personal Data from children under 13. If you have reason to believe that a child under 13 has provided Personal Data to OpenAI through the Services, please email us at privacy@openai.com. We will investigate any notification and, if appropriate, delete the Personal Data from our systems. Users under 18 must have permission from their parent or guardian to use our Services. Learn more(opens in a new window) about how teens and parents or guardians can choose to link their accounts.
We implement commercially reasonable technical, administrative, and organizational measures designed to protect Personal Data from loss, misuse, and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, or destruction. However, no Internet or email transmission is ever fully secure or error free. Therefore, you should take special care in deciding what information you provide to the Services. In addition, we are not responsible for circumvention of any privacy settings or security measures contained on the Service, or third-party websites.
Some U.S. state privacy laws(opens in a new window) require specific disclosures. The following table provides additional information about the categories of Personal Data we collect and how we use and disclose that information. You can read more about the Personal Data we collect and where we collect it from in “Personal Data we collect” above, how we use Personal Data in “How we use Personal Data” above, when we disclose Personal Data in “Disclosure of Personal Data” above and how we retain Personal Data in “Retention” above.
Depending on where you live and subject to applicable exceptions, you may have the following privacy rights in relation to your Personal Data:
The right to know information about our processing of your Personal Data, including the right to access your Personal Data, often in a portable format;
The right to request deletion of your Personal Data;
The right to correct your Personal Data; and
The right to be free from retaliation relating to the exercise of any of your privacy rights.
We don’t “sell” Personal Data or “share” Personal Data for cross-contextual behavioral advertising, and we do not process Personal Data for “targeted advertising” purposes (as those terms are defined under state privacy laws). We also don’t process sensitive Personal Data for the purposes of inferring characteristics about a consumer.
Exercising Your Rights. You can exercise privacy rights described in this section by submitting a request through privacy.openai.com(opens in a new window) or to dsar@openai.com. Review our California privacy rights reporting here.
Verification. In order to protect your Personal Data from unauthorized access, change, or deletion, we may require you to verify your credentials before you can submit a request to know, correct, or delete Personal Data. If you do not have an account with us, or if we suspect fraudulent or malicious activity, we may ask you to provide additional Personal Data for verification. If we cannot verify your identity, we will not be able to honor your request.
Authorized Agents. Depending upon where you reside, you may also submit a rights request through an authorized agent. If you do so, the agent must present authority to act on your behalf, such as signed written permission, and you may also be required to independently verify your identity with us. Authorized agent requests can be submitted to dsar@openai.com.
Appeals. Depending on where you live, you may have the right to appeal a decision we make relating to requests to exercise your rights. To appeal a decision, please send your request to dsar@openai.com.
We may update this policy from time to time. When we do, we will publish an updated version and effective date on this page, unless another type of notice is required by applicable law.
If you live in the European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland, OpenAI Ireland Limited, with its registered office at 1st Floor, The Liffey Trust Centre, 117-126 Sheriff Street Upper, Dublin 1, D01 YC43, Ireland, is the controller and is responsible for the processing of your Personal Data as described in this policy.
If you live anywhere else, OpenAI OpCo, LLC, with its registered office at 1455 Third Street, San Francisco, California 94158, United States, is the controller and is responsible for the processing of your Personal Data as described in this policy.
Please contact support(opens in a new window) if you have any questions or concerns not already addressed in this policy.