--- Content from https://www.cyber.gov.au/resources-business-and-government/essential-cyber-security/ism ---

Skip to main content
Information security manual
Content written for
Large organisations & infrastructure
Government
Attachments
Information security manual (December 2025)
2.3MB .pdf
ISM December 2025 changes (December 2025)
741KB .pdf
System security plan annex template (December 2025)
159KB .xlsx
Cloud controls matrix template (December 2025)
203KB .xlsx
Share on
The Australian Signals Directorate produces the
Information security manual
(ISM). The ISM is a cyber security framework that an organisation can apply, using their risk management framework, to protect their information technology and operational technology systems, applications and data from cyber threats. The ISM is intended for chief information security officers, chief information officers, cyber security professionals and information technology managers.
Using the Information security manual
This chapter of the Information security manual (ISM) provides guidance on using the ISM.
Cyber security principles
Follow the Information security manual (ISM)'s cyber security principles to protect information technology and operational technology systems, applications and data from cyber threats.
Cybersecurity guidelines
Practical guidance on how an organisation can protect their information technology and operational technology systems, applications and data from cyberthreats.
Cyber security terminology
This chapter of the Information security manual (ISM) provides guidance on cyber security terminology.
Archived ISM releases
List of archived ISM releases.
ISM OSCAL releases
List of current and previous ISM releases in the OSCAL format.
ISM feedback form
ISM feedback and enquiries.
Report a cyber security incident for critical infrastructure
Get alerts on new threats
Alert Service
Become an
ASD Partner
Report a cybercrime or cyber security incident
Back to top
Original text
Rate this translation
Your feedback will be used to help improve Google Translate