--- Content from https://www.anthropic.com/legal/consumer-terms ---

Welcome to Anthropic! Before you access our services, please read these Terms of Service.
These Terms of Service (“
Terms
”) govern your use of Claude.ai, Claude Pro, and other products and services that we may offer for individuals, along with any associated apps, software, and websites (together, our “
Services
”). These Terms are a contract between you and Anthropic, PBC ("
Anthropic
") (and not our Providers), and they include our
Acceptable Use Policy
. By accessing our Services, you agree to these Terms.
Please read our
Privacy Policy
, which describes how we collect and use personal information.
Please note: Our
Commercial Terms of Service
govern your use of any Anthropic API key, the
Anthropic Console
, or any other Anthropic offerings that reference the Commercial Terms of Service. For clarity, this does not include Claude.ai or Claude Pro use for individuals or entities.
1. Who we are.
Anthropic is an AI safety and research company working to build reliable, interpretable, and steerable AI systems. We conduct frontier research, develop and apply a variety of safety techniques, and deploy the resulting systems via a set of partnerships and products.
2. Account creation and access.
Minimum age.
You must be at least 18 years old or the minimum age required to consent to use the Services in your location, whichever is higher.
Your Anthropic Account.
To access our Services, we may ask you to create an Account. You agree to provide correct, current, and complete Account information and allow us to use it to communicate with you about our Services. Our communications to you using your Account information will satisfy any requirements for legal notices.
You may not share your Account login information, Anthropic API key, or Account credentials with anyone else. You also may not make your Account available to anyone else. You are responsible for all activity occurring under your Account, and you agree to notify us immediately if you become aware of any unauthorized access to your Account by sending an email to
support@anthropic.com
.
You may close your Account at any time by contacting us at
support@anthropic.com
.
Business Domains.
If you use an email address owned by your employer or another organization, your Account may be linked to the organization's Anthropic enterprise account, and the organization’s administrator may be able to monitor and control the Account, including having access to Materials (defined below). We will provide notice to you before linking your Account to an organization's enterprise account. However, if the organization is responsible for notifying you or has already informed you that it may monitor and control your Account, we may not provide additional notice.
Evaluation and Additional Services.
In some cases, we may permit you to evaluate our Services for a limited time or with limited functionality. Use of our Services for evaluation purposes are for your personal, non-commercial use only.
You may need to accept additional terms to use certain Services. These additional terms will supplement our Terms for those Services and may change your rights or obligations for those Services, including your obligations to pay fees.
3. Use of our Services.
You may access and use our Services only in compliance with our Terms, including our
Acceptable Use Policy
, the policy governing
the countries and regions Anthropic currently supports
("Supported Regions Policy"), and any guidelines or supplemental terms we may post on the Services (the “
Permitted Use
”). You are responsible for all activity under the account through which you access the Services.
You may not access or use, or help another person to access or use, our Services in the following ways:
In any manner that violates any applicable law or regulation—including, without limitation, any laws about exporting data or software to and from the United States or other countries.
To develop any products or services that compete with our Services, including to develop or train any artificial intelligence or machine learning algorithms or models or resell the Services.
To decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, or otherwise reduce our Services to human-readable form, except when these restrictions are prohibited by applicable law.
To crawl, scrape, or otherwise harvest data or information from our Services other than as permitted under these Terms.
To use our Services, the Materials, or the Actions to obtain unauthorized access to any system or information, or to deceive any person.
To infringe, misappropriate, or violate intellectual property or other legal rights (including the rights of publicity or privacy).
Except when you are accessing our Services via an Anthropic API Key or where we otherwise explicitly permit it, to access the Services through automated or non-human means, whether through a bot, script, or otherwise.
To engage in any other conduct that restricts or inhibits any person from using or enjoying our Services, or that we reasonably believe exposes us—or any of our users, affiliates, or any other third party—to any liability, damages, or detriment of any type, including reputational harms.
To rely upon the Services, the Materials, or the Actions to buy or sell securities or to provide or receive advice about securities, commodities, derivatives, or other financial products or services, as Anthropic is not a broker-dealer or a registered investment adviser under the securities laws of the United States or any other jurisdiction.
You also must not abuse, harm, interfere with, or disrupt our Services, including, for example, introducing viruses or malware, spamming or DDoSing Services, or bypassing any of our systems or protective measures.
4. Inputs, Outputs, Actions, and Materials.
Generally.
You may be allowed to interact with our Services in a variety of formats (we call these “
Inputs
”). Our Services may generate responses (we call these “
Outputs
”), or enable the Services to take actions on your behalf, such as software manipulation, data processing, and system interactions (we call these
"Actions"
), based on your Inputs. Inputs and Outputs collectively are “
Materials
.”
Rights and Responsibilities.
You are responsible for all Inputs you submit to our Services and all Actions. By submitting Inputs to our Services, you represent and warrant that you have all rights, licenses, and permissions that are necessary for us to process the Inputs under our Terms and to provide the Services to you, including for example, to integrate with third-party services, to share Materials with others at your direction, and to take Actions. You also represent and warrant that your submitting Inputs to us or directing Claude to take Actions will not violate our Terms, our
Acceptable Use Policy
, or any laws or regulations applicable to those Inputs or Actions. As between you and Anthropic, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, you retain any right, title, and interest that you have in the Inputs you submit. Subject to your compliance with our Terms, we assign to you all of our right, title, and interest—if any—in Outputs.
Reliance on Outputs and Actions.
Artificial intelligence and large language models are frontier technologies that are still improving in accuracy, reliability and safety. When you use our Services, you acknowledge and agree:
Outputs may not always be accurate and may contain material inaccuracies even if they appear accurate because of their level of detail or specificity.
Actions may not be error free or operate as you intended.
You should not rely on any Outputs or Actions without independently confirming their accuracy.
The Services and any Outputs may not reflect correct, current, or complete information.
Outputs may contain content that is inconsistent with Anthropic’s views.
Our use of Materials.
We may use Materials to provide, maintain, and improve the Services and to develop other products and services, including training our models, unless you opt out of training through your account settings. Even if you opt out, we will use Materials for model training when: (1) you provide Feedback to us regarding any Materials, or (2) your Materials are flagged for safety review to improve our ability to detect harmful content, enforce our policies, or advance our safety research.
5. Feedback
We appreciate feedback, including ideas and suggestions for improvement or rating an Output in response to an Input (“
Feedback
”). If you rate an Output in response to an Input—for example, by using the thumbs up/thumbs down icon—we will store the related conversation as part of your Feedback. You have no obligation to give us Feedback, but if you do, you agree that we may use the Feedback however we choose without any obligation or other payment to you.
6. Subscriptions, fees and payment.
Fees and billing.
You may be required to pay us fees to access or use our Services or certain features of our Services. You are responsible for paying any applicable fees listed for the Services on the
Model Pricing Page
unless otherwise communicated to you by Anthropic in writing.
If you purchase access to our Services or features of our Services, you must provide complete and accurate billing information (“
Payment Method
”). You agree that we may charge the Payment Method for any applicable fees listed on our Services and any applicable tax. If the fees for these Services or features are specified to be recurring or based on usage, you agree that we may charge these fees and applicable taxes to the Payment Method on a periodic basis.
If you purchase access to our Services through a distributor (e.g. an app store) (
“App Distributor”
), then you will make payment to the App Distributor, and the App Distributor’s terms in relation to payment methods, billing, and refunds will apply instead of these Terms.
Except as expressly provided in these Terms or where required by law, all payments are non-refundable. Please check your order carefully before confirming it, and see below for additional information about recurring charges for our subscriptions.
Additional fees.
We may increase fees for our Services. If we charge additional fees in connection with our Services, we will give you an opportunity to review and accept the additional fees before you are charged. Also, additional fees may apply for additional Services or features of the Services that we may make available. If you do not accept any such additional fees, we may discontinue your access to the Services or features.
You agree that we will not be held liable for any errors caused by third-party payment processors used to process fees paid by you to us.
Subscriptions.
To access Claude Pro and other subscription services we may make available to individuals, you must sign up for a subscription with us (a “
Subscription
”), first by creating an Account, and then following the subscription procedure on our Services. When you sign up for a Subscription, you agree to these Terms.
Subscription content, features, and services.
The content, features, and other services provided as part of your Subscription, and the duration of your Subscription, will be described in the order process. We may change the content, features, and other services from time to time, and we do not guarantee that any particular piece of content, feature, or other service will always be available through the Services.
Subscription term and automatic renewal.
If you sign up for a paid Subscription, we or the App Distributor will automatically charge your Payment Method on each agreed-upon periodic renewal date until you cancel. If your Subscription has a minimum term (the “
Initial Term
”), we will let you know during the order process. Your Subscription will last for the Initial Term and will automatically renew, and your Payment Method will be charged, at the end of the Initial Term for an additional term equal in duration to the Initial Term and will continue to renew and incur charges for additional terms equal in duration to the Initial Term (each such additional term, a “
Renewal Term
”) until you cancel.
Subscription cancellation.
If you subscribed via our website, you may cancel your Subscription for any reason by using a method we may provide to you through our products—for example, for Claude Pro, in your customer portal—or by notifying us at
support@anthropic.com
. If you subscribed via an app, you’ll need to cancel via the App Distributor according to the App Distributor’s terms. Learn more
here
. To avoid renewal and charges for the next Renewal Term, cancel your subscription at least 24 hours before the last day of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term. For example, if you subscribe on January 25th for a Subscription with a one-month Initial Term, you must cancel the Subscription per the instructions by February 23rd (24 hours before February 24th) to avoid renewal and charges for the next Renewal Term. In the event of a cancellation, your fees will not be refunded, but your access to the Services will continue through the end of the Initial Term or any Renewal Term for which you previously paid fees.
Additional cancellation rights.
If you are a resident of Brazil, Mexico, South Korea, or Taiwan, you have a legal right to change your mind and cancel the Subscription within 7 days of entering into the Subscription without giving a reason.
To exercise the right to cancel in the 7-day cancellation period, you must inform us of your decision to cancel the Subscription by making a clear statement to us of such decision before the cancellation period has expired. The easiest way to do this is by cancelling your subscription in the customer portal, or you may contact us at support@anthropic.com. You may also use the model cancellation form in Appendix 1 of these Terms, but it is not obligatory. For further details on how to cancel, please see support.anthropic.com. We will acknowledge your cancellation, e.g., through our online customer portal or console.
If you cancel the Subscription under Section 6(4)(a), we will reimburse you all payments received from you for the cancelled Subscription. We will make the reimbursement without undue delay, and not later than 14 days after the day on which we are informed about your decision to cancel the Subscription. We will make the reimbursement using the same means of payment as you used for the initial transaction; you will not incur any fees as a result of the reimbursement.
If you would like to use the Services during the 7-day cancellation period, you may do so. If you have used the Services during the 7-day cancellation period, and wish to cancel the Subscription, you can still do so by following the process in Section (4)(a) above, but we may retain an amount which is in proportion to what has been provided until you have communicated us your withdrawal from these Terms, in comparison with the full coverage of the Subscription.
The 7-day cancellation period will not reset if you change subscription tiers or cancel and then resubscribe, as you have already had an opportunity to test the Services.
Subscription fees.
You will pay the fees, either to us or to the App Distributor, for the Initial Term and each subsequent Renewal Term up front, at the start of that Initial Term or Renewal Term, as applicable. We have the right to make changes to the fees applicable to your Subscription from time to time, although we will not make any change to the fees applicable to your Subscription during the current Initial Term or Renewal Term, as applicable. If these changes result in an increase in the fees payable by you, we will inform you at least 30 days in advance of the change. You agree to the increase in fees payable by you unless you cancel the Subscription, as described in the paragraph (Subscription cancellation) immediately above, before the Renewal Term to which the increase in fees will apply.
7. Third-party services and links
Our Services may use or be used in connection with third-party content ("
Third-Party Content
"), services, or integrations. We do not control or accept responsibility for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of any Third-Party Content, services, and integrations, for which we make no representations or warranties. Your use of any Third-Party Content, services, and integrations is at your own risk and subject to any terms, conditions, or policies (including privacy policies) applicable to such third-party content, services, and integrations.
8. Content Moderation
Third-Party Content is the responsibility of the person or entity that provides it to our Services. Anthropic is under no obligation to host or serve Third-Party Content. Third-Party Content may appear in Inputs or Outputs and become part of Materials. If you see any Third-Party Content you believe does not comply with these Terms, including by violating the Acceptable Use Policy or the law, you can
report
it to us.
If we become aware that any Third-Party Content (1) infringes another’s copyright or any other intellectual property or related or neighboring right, (2) is in breach of these Terms or our Acceptable Use Policy, or (3) may cause harm to Anthropic, our users, or third parties, we reserve the right to remove or take down some or all of such Third-Party Content using, where appropriate, algorithmic and human review.
You can learn more about our monitoring and enforcement, including how to appeal an account suspension or termination, in our
T&S Support Center
.
9. Software
We may offer manual or automatic updates to our software including our apps (“
Anthropic Software
”), without advance notice to you. Anthropic Software may include open source software. In the event of any conflict between these Terms and any other Anthropic or third-party terms applicable to any portion of Anthropic Software, such as open-source license terms, such other terms will control as to that portion of the Anthropic Software and to the extent of the conflict.
10. Ownership of the Services
The Services are owned, operated, and provided by us and our affiliates, licensors, distributors, and service providers (collectively “
Providers
”). We and our Providers retain all of our respective rights, title, and interest, including intellectual property rights, in and to the Services. Other than the rights of access and use expressly granted in our Terms, our Terms do not grant you any right, title, or interest in or to our Services.
11. Disclaimer of warranties, limitations of liability, and indemnity
Our team works hard to provide great services, and we’re continuously working on improvements. However, there are certain aspects we can’t guarantee. We are using ALL CAPS to explain this, to make sure that you see it.
YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES, MATERIALS, AND ACTIONS IS SOLELY AT YOUR OWN RISK. THE SERVICES, OUTPUTS, AND ACTIONS ARE PROVIDED ON AN “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” BASIS AND, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, ARE PROVIDED WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY. WE AND OUR PROVIDERS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY AND ALL WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, ACCURACY, AVAILABILITY, RELIABILITY, SECURITY, PRIVACY, COMPATIBILITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND ANY WARRANTY IMPLIED BY COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, OR TRADE USAGE.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL WE, OUR PROVIDERS, OR OUR OR THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES, INVESTORS, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, SUCCESSORS OR ASSIGNS (COLLECTIVELY, THE “ANTHROPIC PARTIES”), BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR OTHER DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE SERVICES, THE MATERIALS, THE ACTIONS, OR THESE TERMS, WHETHER BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY, OR OTHER THEORY, EVEN IF ANY ANTHROPIC PARTIES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF DAMAGES, AND EVEN IF THE DAMAGES ARE FORESEEABLE.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, THE ANTHROPIC PARTIES’ TOTAL AGGREGATE LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ALL DAMAGES, LOSSES AND CAUSES OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR IN ANY WAY RELATED TO THE SERVICES, THE MATERIALS, THE ACTIONS, OR THESE TERMS, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE, WILL NOT EXCEED THE GREATER OF THE AMOUNT YOU PAID TO US FOR ACCESS TO OR USE OF THE SERVICES (IF ANY) IN THE SIX MONTHS PRECEDING THE DATE SUCH DAMAGES, LOSSES, AND CAUSES OF ACTION FIRST AROSE, AND $100. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS ARE ESSENTIAL TO THESE TERMS, AND WE WOULD NOT OFFER THE SERVICES TO YOU UNDER THESE TERMS WITHOUT THESE LIMITATIONS.
YOU AGREE TO INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS THE ANTHROPIC PARTIES FROM AND AGAINST ANY AND ALL LIABILITIES, CLAIMS, DAMAGES, EXPENSES (INCLUDING REASONABLE ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS), AND OTHER LOSSES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO YOUR BREACH OR ALLEGED BREACH OF THESE TERMS; YOUR ACCESS TO, USE OF, OR ALLEGED USE OF THE SERVICES, THE MATERIALS, OR THE ACTIONS; YOUR FEEDBACK; ANY PRODUCTS OR SERVICES THAT YOU DEVELOP, OFFER, OR OTHERWISE MAKE AVAILABLE USING OR OTHERWISE IN CONNECTION WITH THE SERVICES; YOUR VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE LAW OR ANY THIRD-PARTY RIGHT; AND ANY ACTUAL OR ALLEGED FRAUD, INTENTIONAL MISCONDUCT, GROSS NEGLIGENCE, OR CRIMINAL ACTS COMMITTED BY YOU OR YOUR EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO ENGAGE SEPARATE COUNSEL AND PARTICIPATE IN OR ASSUME THE EXCLUSIVE DEFENSE AND CONTROL OF ANY MATTER OTHERWISE SUBJECT TO INDEMNIFICATION BY YOU HEREUNDER, IN WHICH CASE YOU AGREE TO COOPERATE WITH US AND SUCH SEPARATE COUNSEL AS WE REASONABLY REQUEST.
THE LAWS OF SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE DISCLAIMER OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CERTAIN TYPES OF DAMAGES, SO SOME OR ALL OF THE DISCLAIMERS AND LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY IN THESE TERMS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
OUR PROVIDERS ARE INTENDED THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES OF THE WARRANTY DISCLAIMERS AND LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY CONTAINED IN THIS SECTION 11.
12. General terms
Changes to the Services.
Our Services are novel and will change. We may sometimes add or remove features, increase or decrease capacity limits, offer new Services, or stop offering certain Services.
Unless we specifically agree otherwise in a separate agreement with you, we reserve the right to modify, suspend, or discontinue the Services or your access to the Services, in whole or in part, at any time without notice to you. Although we will strive to provide you with reasonable advance notice if we stop offering a Service, there may be urgent situations—such as preventing abuse, responding to legal requirements, or addressing security and operability issues—where providing advance notice is not feasible. We will not be liable for any change to or any suspension or discontinuation of the Services or your access to them.
Changes to these terms.
We may revise and update these Terms at our discretion. Some examples of times, we may update these Terms include (1) to reflect changes in our Services, like when we add or remove features or services, or update our pricing, (2) for security or legal reasons, or (3) to promote safety or prevent abuse. If you continue to access the Services after we post the updated Terms on Anthropic’s website or otherwise give you notice of Terms changes, then you agree to the updated Terms. If you do not accept the updated Terms, you must stop using our Services.
Supplemental terms.
We may offer Services or features that we believe require service-specific terms or guidelines. When using our Services, you agree to comply with any applicable guidelines, rules, or supplemental terms that may be posted on the Services from time to time (“Supplemental Terms”). If these Terms conflict with Supplemental Terms, the Supplemental Terms will govern for the applicable Service.
Entire agreement.
These Terms and any other terms expressly incorporated by reference form the entire agreement between you and us regarding the subject matter of our Terms.
Termination.
You may stop accessing the Services at any time. We may suspend or terminate your access to the Services (including any Subscriptions) at any time without notice to you if we believe that you have breached these Terms, or if we must do so in order to comply with law. If we terminate your access to the Services due to a violation of these Terms and you have a Subscription, you will not be entitled to any refund. In addition, if you have a Subscription, we may terminate the Subscription at any time for any other reason. If we exercise this right and you purchased the subscription via our website, we will refund you, on a pro rata basis, the fees you paid for the remaining portion of your Subscription after termination. Any refunds for Subscriptions purchased via an App Distributor are subject to the App Distributor’s terms and not these terms.
We may also terminate your Account if you have been inactive for over a year and you do not have a paid Account. If we terminate your Account due to inactivity, we will provide you with notice before doing so.
Upon termination of these Terms, a Subscription, or your access to the Services, we may at our option delete any Materials or other data associated with your Account. Sections 6 (with respect to fees outstanding as of such expiration or termination) and 9 – 12 will survive any expiration or termination of our Terms or a Subscription.
Severability.
If a particular Term or portion of these Terms is not valid or enforceable, this will have no effect on any other Terms.
No waiver.
Any delay or failure on our part to enforce a provision of these Terms is not a waiver of our right to enforce them later.
No assignment.
These Terms may not be transferred or assigned by you without our prior written consent, but may be assigned by us without restriction.
Use of our brand.
You may not, without our prior written permission, use our name, logos, or other trademarks in connection with products or services other than the Services, or in any other way that implies our affiliation, endorsement, or sponsorship. To seek permission, please email us at marketing@anthropic.com.
Export Controls.
You may not export or provide access to the Services into any U.S. embargoed countries or to anyone on (i) the U.S. Treasury Department’s list of Specially Designated Nationals, (ii) any other restricted party lists identified by the Office of Foreign Asset Control, (iii) the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons List or Entity List, or (iv) any other restricted party lists. You represent and warrant that you and anyone accessing or using the Services on your behalf, or using your Account credentials, are not such persons or entities and are not located in any such country.
Legal Compliance.
We may comply with governmental, court, and law enforcement requests or requirements relating to provision or use of the Services, or to information provided to or collected under our Terms. We reserve the right, at our sole discretion, to report information from or about you, including but not limited to Inputs, Outputs, or Actions to law enforcement.
U.S. Government Use.
The Services were developed solely at private expense and are commercial computer software and commercial computer software documentation within the meaning of the applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations and their agency supplements. Accordingly, U.S. Government users of the Services will have only those rights that are granted to all other end users of the Services pursuant to these Terms.
13. In case of disputes
Equitable relief.
You agree that (a) no adequate remedy exists at law if you breach Section 3 (Use of Our Services); (b) it would be difficult to determine the damages resulting from such breach, and any such breach would cause irreparable harm; and (c) a grant of injunctive relief provides the best remedy for any such breach. You waive any opposition to such injunctive relief, as well as any demand that we prove actual damage or post a bond or other security in connection with such injunctive relief.
Governing law and exclusive jurisdiction.
Our Terms will be governed by, and construed and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of California without giving effect to conflict of law principles. You and Anthropic agree that any disputes arising out of or relating to these Terms will be resolved exclusively in the state or federal courts located in San Francisco, California, and you and Anthropic submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of those courts. By accessing our Services, you waive any claims that may arise under the laws of other jurisdictions.
Consumer Terms of Service \ Anthropic

--- Content from https://www.anthropic.com/legal/aup ---

Our Usage Policy (also referred to as our “Acceptable Use Policy” or “AUP”) applies to anyone who can submit inputs to Anthropic’s products and/or services, including via any authorized resellers or passthrough access, all of whom we refer to as “users.” The Usage Policy is intended to help our users stay safe and promote the responsible use of our products and services.
The Usage Policy is categorized according to who can use our products and for what purposes. We will update our policy as our technology and the associated risks evolve or as we learn about unanticipated risks.
Universal Usage Standards:
Our Universal Usage Standards apply to all users and use cases.
High-Risk Use Case Requirements:
Our High-Risk Use Case Requirements apply to specific consumer-facing use cases that pose an elevated risk of harm.
Additional Use Case Guidelines:
Our Additional Use Case Guidelines apply to certain other use cases, including consumer-facing chatbots, products serving minors, agentic use, and Model Context Protocol servers.
Anthropic’s Safeguards Team will implement detection and monitoring to enforce our Usage Policy, so please review this policy carefully before using our products or services. If we learn that you have violated our Usage Policy, we may throttle, suspend, or terminate your access to our products and services. We may also block or modify model outputs when inputs violate our Usage Policy.
If you believe that our model outputs are potentially inaccurate, biased or harmful, please notify us at usersafety@anthropic.com, or report it directly in our product through the “report issues” thumbs down button or similar feedback features (where available). You can read more about our Safeguards practices and recommendations in our
Safeguards Support Center
.
This Usage Policy is calibrated to strike an optimal balance between enabling beneficial uses and mitigating potential harms. Anthropic may enter into contracts with certain governmental customers that tailor use restrictions to that customer’s public mission and legal authorities if, in Anthropic’s judgment, the contractual use restrictions and applicable safeguards are adequate to mitigate the potential harms addressed by this Usage Policy.
Universal Usage Standards
Do Not Violate Applicable Laws or Engage in Illegal Activity
This includes using our products or services to:
Acquire or exchange illegal or controlled substances
Engage in or facilitate human trafficking or prostitution
Infringe, misappropriate, or violate the intellectual property rights of a third party
Violate any other applicable laws or regulations in your jurisdiction
Do Not Compromise Critical Infrastructure
This includes using our products or services to:
Facilitate the destruction or disruption of critical infrastructure such as power grids, water treatment facilities, medical devices, telecommunication networks, or air traffic control systems
Obtain unauthorized access to critical systems such as voting machines, healthcare databases, and financial markets
Interfere with the operation of military bases and related infrastructure
Do Not Compromise Computer or Network Systems
This includes using our products or services to:
Discover or exploit vulnerabilities in systems, networks, or applications without authorization of the system owner
Gain unauthorized access to systems, networks, applications, or devices through technical attacks or social engineering
Create or distribute malware, ransomware, or other types of malicious code
Develop tools for denial-of-service attacks or managing botnets
Create tools designed to intercept communications or monitor devices without authorization of the system owner
Develop persistent access tools designed to operate below normal system security levels, including firmware modifications or hardware implants
Create automated tools designed to compromise multiple systems at scale for malicious purposes
Bypass security controls such as authenticated systems, endpoint protection, or monitoring tools
Do Not Develop or Design Weapons
This includes using our products or services to:
Produce, modify, design, or illegally acquire weapons, explosives, dangerous materials or other systems designed to cause harm to or loss of human life
Design or develop weaponization and delivery processes for the deployment of weapons
Circumvent regulatory controls to acquire weapons or their precursors
Synthesize, or otherwise develop, high-yield explosives or biological, chemical, radiological, or nuclear weapons or their precursors, including modifications to evade detection or medical countermeasures
Do Not Incite Violence or Hateful Behavior
This includes using our products or services to:
Incite, facilitate, or promote violent extremism, terrorism, or hateful behavior
Provide material support for organizations or individuals associated with violent extremism, terrorism, or hateful behavior
Facilitate or promote any act of violence or intimidation targeting individuals, groups, animals, or property
Promote discriminatory practices or behaviors against individuals or groups on the basis of one or more protected attributes such as race, ethnicity, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, or any other identifying trait
Do Not Compromise Privacy or Identity Rights
This includes using our products or services to:
Violate privacy rights as defined by applicable privacy laws, such as sharing personal information without consent or accessing private data unlawfully
Misuse, collect, solicit, or gain access without permission to private information such as non-public contact details, health data, biometric or neural data (including facial recognition), or confidential or proprietary data
Impersonate a human by presenting results as human-generated, or using results in a manner intended to convince a natural person that they are communicating with a natural person when they are not
Do Not Compromise Children’s Safety
This includes using our products or services to:
Create, distribute, or promote child sexual abuse material (“CSAM”), including AI-generated CSAM
Facilitate the trafficking, sextortion, or any other form of exploitation of a minor
Facilitate minor grooming, including generating content designed to impersonate a minor
Facilitate child abuse of any form, including instructions for how to conceal abuse
Promote or facilitate pedophilic relationships, including via roleplay with the model
Fetishize or sexualize minors, including in fictional settings or via roleplay with the model
Note: We define a minor or child to be any individual under the age of 18 years old, regardless of jurisdiction. When we detect CSAM (including AI-generated CSAM), or coercion or enticement of a minor to engage in sexual activities, we will report to relevant authorities.
Do Not Create Psychologically or Emotionally Harmful Content
This includes using our products or services to:
Facilitate, promote, or glamorize any form of suicide or self-harm, including disordered eating and unhealthy or compulsive exercise
Engage in behaviors that promote unhealthy or unattainable body image or beauty standards, such as using the model to critique anyone’s body shape or size
Shame, humiliate, intimidate, bully, harass, or celebrate the suffering of individuals
Coordinate the harassment or intimidation of an individual or group
Generate content depicting animal cruelty or abuse
Promote, trivialize, or depict graphic violence or gratuitous gore, including sexual violence
Develop a new product or service, or support an existing product or service that employs or facilitates deceptive techniques with the intent of causing emotional harm
Do Not Create or Spread Misinformation
This includes using our products or services to:
Create or disseminate deceptive or misleading information about, or with the intention of targeting, a group, entity or person
Create or disseminate deceptive or misleading information about laws, regulations, procedures, practices, standards established by an institution, entity or governing body
Create or disseminate conspiratorial narratives meant to target a specific group, individual or entity
Impersonate real entities or create fake personas to falsely attribute content or mislead others about its origin without consent or legal right
Provide false or misleading information related to medical, health or science issues
Do Not Undermine Democratic Processes or Engage in Targeted Campaign Activities
This includes using our products or services to:
Engage in personalized vote or campaign targeting based on individual profiles or data
Create artificial or deceptive political movements in which the source, scale or nature of the campaign or activities is misrepresented
Generate automated communications to public officials or voters at scale that conceal their artificial origin, or engage in systematic vote solicitation that could undermine election integrity
Create political content designed to deceive or mislead voters, including synthetic media of political figures
Generate or disseminate false or misleading information in political and electoral contexts, including about candidates, parties, policies, voting procedures, or election security
Engage in political lobbying or grassroots advocacy using false or fabricated information, or create lobbying or advocacy materials containing demonstrably false claims about facts, data, or events
Incite, glorify or facilitate the disruption of electoral or civic processes, including interference with voting systems, vote counting, or certification processes
Create content designed to suppress voter turnout or discourage legitimate political participation through deception or intimidation
Do Not Use for Criminal Justice, Censorship, Surveillance, or Prohibited Law Enforcement Purposes
This includes using our products or services to:
Make determinations on criminal justice applications, including making decisions about or determining eligibility for parole or sentencing
Target or track a person’s physical location, emotional state, or communication without their consent, including using our products for facial recognition, battlefield management applications or predictive policing
Utilize models to assign scores or ratings to individuals based on an assessment of their trustworthiness or social behavior without notification or their consent
Build or support emotional recognition systems or techniques that are used to infer emotions of a natural person, except for medical or safety reasons
Analyze or identify specific content to censor on behalf of a government organization
Utilize models as part of any biometric categorization system for categorizing people based on their biometric data to infer their race, political opinions, trade union membership, religious or philosophical beliefs, sex life or sexual orientation
Utilize models as part of any law enforcement application that violates or impairs the liberty, civil liberties, or human rights of natural persons
Do Not Engage in Fraudulent, Abusive, or Predatory Practices
This includes using our products or services to:
Facilitate the production, acquisition, or distribution of counterfeit or illicitly acquired goods
Promote or facilitate the generation or distribution of spam
Generate content for fraudulent activities, schemes, scams, phishing, or malware that can result in direct financial or psychological harm
Create falsified documents including fake IDs, licenses, currency, or other government documents
Develop, promote, or otherwise facilitate the sale or distribution of fraudulent or deceptive products
Generate deceptive or misleading digital content such as fake reviews, comments, or media
Engage in or facilitate multi-level marketing, pyramid schemes, or other deceptive business models that use high-pressure sales tactics or exploit participants
Promote or facilitate payday loans, title loans, or other high-interest, short-term lending practices that exploit vulnerable individuals
Engage in deceptive or abusive practices that exploit individuals based on age, disability or a specific social or economic situation
Promote or facilitate the use of abusive or harassing debt collection practices
Develop a product or support an existing service that deploys subliminal, manipulative, or deceptive techniques to distort behavior by impairing decision-making
Engage in actions or behaviors that circumvent the guardrails or terms of other platforms or services
Plagiarize or submit AI-assisted work without proper permission or attribution
Do Not Abuse our Platform
This includes using our products or services to:
Coordinate malicious activity across multiple accounts to avoid detection or circumvent product guardrails or generating identical or similar inputs that otherwise violate our Usage Policy
Utilize automation in account creation or to engage in spammy behavior
Circumvent a ban through the use of a different account, such as the creation of a new account, use of an existing account, or providing access to a person or entity that was previously banned
Access or facilitate account or API access to Claude to persons, entities, or users in violation of our
Supported Regions Policy
Intentionally bypass capabilities, restrictions, or guardrails established within our products for the purposes of instructing the model to produce harmful outputs (e.g., jailbreaking or prompt injection) without prior authorization from Anthropic
Utilization of inputs and outputs to train an AI model (e.g., “model scraping” or “model distillation”) without prior authorization from Anthropic
Do Not Generate Sexually Explicit Content
This includes using our products or services to:
Depict or request sexual intercourse or sex acts
Generate content related to sexual fetishes or fantasies
Facilitate, promote, or depict incest or bestiality
Engage in erotic chats
High-Risk Use Case Requirements
Some use cases pose an elevated risk of harm because they influence domains that are vital to public welfare and social equity. For these use cases, given potential risks to individuals and consumers, we believe that relevant human expertise should be integrated and that end-users should be aware when AI has been involved in producing outputs.
As such, for the “High-Risk Use Cases” described below, we require that you implement these additional safety measures:
Human-in-the-loop:
When using our products or services to provide advice, recommendations, or in subjective decision-making directly affecting
individuals or consumers
, a qualified professional in that field must review the content or decision prior to dissemination or finalization. You or your organization are responsible for the accuracy and appropriateness of that information.
Disclosure:
If model outputs are presented directly to
individuals or consumers
, you must disclose to them that you are using AI to help produce your advice, decisions, or recommendations. This disclosure must be provided at a minimum at the beginning of each session.
“High-Risk Use Cases” include:
Legal:
Use cases related to legal interpretation, legal guidance, or decisions with legal implications
Healthcare:
Use cases related to healthcare decisions, medical diagnosis, patient care, therapy, mental health, or other medical guidance. Wellness advice (e.g., advice on sleep, stress, nutrition, exercise, etc.) does not fall under this category
Insurance:
Use cases related to health, life, property, disability, or other types of insurance underwriting, claims processing, or coverage decisions
Finance:
Use cases related to financial decisions, including investment advice, loan approvals, and determining financial eligibility or creditworthiness
Employment and housing:
Use cases related to decisions about the employability of individuals, resume screening, hiring tools, or other employment determinations or decisions regarding eligibility for housing, including leases and home loans
Academic testing, accreditation and admissions:
Use cases related to standardized testing companies that administer school admissions (including evaluating, scoring or ranking prospective students), language proficiency, or professional certification exams; agencies that evaluate and certify educational institutions
Media or professional journalistic content:
Use cases related to using our products or services to automatically generate content and publish it for external consumption
Additional Use Case Guidelines
The below use cases – regardless of whether they are High-Risk Use Cases – must comply with the additional guidance provided.
All consumer-facing chatbots,
including any external-facing or interactive AI agent, must
disclose
to users that they are interacting with AI rather than a human. This disclosure must be provided at a minimum at the beginning of each chat session.
Products serving minors,
including organizations providing minors with the ability to directly interact with products that incorporate our API(s), must comply with the
additional guidelines
outlined in our
Help Center article.
Agentic use cases
must still comply with the Usage Policy. We provide examples of Usage Policy prohibitions in the context of agentic use in this
Help Center article
.
Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers
listed in our Connector Directory must comply with our
Directory Policy
.
Usage Policy \ Anthropic

--- Content from https://www.anthropic.com/legal/privacy ---

Anthropic is an AI safety and research company working to build reliable, interpretable, and steerable AI systems.
This Privacy Policy explains how we collect, use, disclose, and process your personal data when you use our website and other places where Anthropic acts as a
data controller
—for example, when you interact with Claude.ai or other products as a consumer for personal use ("
Services
") or when Anthropic operates and provides our commercial customers and their end users with access to our commercial products, such as the Claude Team plan (“
Commercial Services
”).
This Privacy Policy does not apply where Anthropic acts as a
data processor
and processes personal data on behalf of commercial customers using Anthropic’s Commercial Services – for example, your employer has provisioned you a Claude for Work account, or you're using an app that is powered on the back-end with Claude. In those cases, the commercial customer is the controller, and you can review their policies for more information about how they handle your personal data.
Please see our
Non-User Privacy Policy
for information on how our large language models are ‘trained’ and how personal data obtained from third party sources, including where others may submit personal data when using our services, may be used when developing or delivering our products and services.
This Privacy Policy also describes your privacy rights. More information about your rights, and how to exercise them, is set out in Section 4 (“Rights and Choices”).
If you are located in Canada, please read section 11 of the Privacy Policy which applies to you.
If you are located in Brazil, please read section 12 of the Privacy Policy which applies to you.
If you are located in the Republic of Korea, please read section 13 of the Privacy Policy which applies to you.
1. Collection of Personal Data
We collect the following categories of personal data:
Personal data you provide to us directly
Identity and Contact Data:
Anthropic collects identifiers, including your name, email address, and phone number when you sign up for an Anthropic account, or to receive information on our Services. We may also collect or generate indirect identifiers (e.g., “USER12345”).
Payment Information:
We shall collect your payment information if you choose to purchase access to Anthropic’s products and services.
Inputs and Outputs:
You are able to interact with our Services in a variety of formats, including but not limited to chat, coding, and agentic sessions (
“Prompts”
or
"Inputs"
), which generate responses and actions (
“Outputs”
) based on your Inputs. This includes third-party applications you choose to integrate with our Services. If you include personal data or reference external content in your Inputs, we will collect that information and this information may be reproduced in your Outputs.
Feedback on your use of our Services:
We appreciate feedback, including ideas and suggestions for improvement or rating an Output in response to an Input ("
Feedback
"). If you rate an Output in response to an Input—for example, by using the thumbs up/thumbs down icon—we will store the entire related conversation as part of your Feedback. You can learn more about how we use Feedback
here
.
Communication Information:
If you communicate with us, including via our chatbot on our Help site, we collect your name, contact information, and the contents of any messages you send.
Personal data we receive automatically from your use of the Services
When you use the Services, we also receive certain technical data automatically (described below, collectively “
Technical Information
”). This includes:
Device and Connection Information.
Consistent with your device or browser permissions, your device or browser automatically sends us information about when and how you install, access, or use our Services. This includes information such as your device type, operating system information, browser information and web page referers, mobile network, connection information, mobile operator or internet service provider (ISP), time zone setting, IP address (including information about the location of the device derived from your IP address), identifiers (including device or advertising identifiers, probabilistic identifiers, and other unique personal or online identifiers), and device location.
Usage Information.
We collect information about your use of the Services, such as the dates and times of access, browsing history, search, information about the links you click, pages you view, and other information about how you use the Services, and technology on the devices you use to access the Services.
Log and Troubleshooting Information.
We collect information about how our Services are performing when you use them. This information includes log files. If you or your device experiences an error, we may collect information about the error, the time the error occurred, the feature being used, the state of the application when the error occurred, and any communications or content provided at the time the error occurred.
Cookies & Similar Technologies.
We and our service providers use cookies, scripts, or similar technologies (“
Cookies
”) to manage the Services and to collect information about you and your use of the Services. These technologies help us to recognize you, customize or personalize your experience, market additional products or services to you, and analyze the use of our Services to make them safer and more useful to you. For more details about how we use these technologies, and your opt-out controls and other options, please visit our
Cookie Policy
.
Personal data we collect or receive to train our models
Anthropic obtains personal data from third party sources in order to train our models. Specifically, we train our models using data from the following sources:
Publicly available information via the Internet
Datasets that we obtain through commercial agreements with third party businesses
Data that our users or crowd workers provide, including Inputs and Outputs from our Services (unless users opt out)
Feedback that users explicitly provide about our Services
Materials flagged for safety, security, or policy review
Data that we generate internally
For more information about how we collect and use personal data to develop our language models that power our Services, the steps we take to minimize the privacy impact on individuals through the training process, and your choices with respect to that information, please see our separate
Non-User Privacy Policy
.
2. Uses of Personal Data Permitted Under Applicable Data Protection Laws
We use your personal data for the following purposes:
To provide, maintain and facilitate any products and services offered to you with respect to your Anthropic account, which are governed by our Terms of Service;
To provide, maintain and facilitate optional services and features that enhance platform functionality and user experience;
To communicate with you, including to send you information about our Services and events;
To create and administer your Anthropic account;
To facilitate payments for products and services provided by Anthropic;
To prevent and investigate fraud, abuse, and violations of our
Usage Policy
, unlawful or criminal activity, unauthorized access to or use of personal data or Anthropic systems and networks, to protect our rights and the rights of others, and to meet legal, governmental and institutional policy obligations;
To investigate and resolve disputes;
To investigate and resolve security issues;
To debug and to identify and repair errors that impair existing functionality
To improve the Services and conduct research, including training our models; and
To enforce our
Terms of Service
and similar terms and agreements, including our
Usage Policy
.
We may use your Inputs and Outputs to train our models and improve our Services, unless you opt out through your account settings. Even if you opt-out, we will use Inputs and Outputs for model improvement when: (1) your conversations are flagged for safety review to improve our ability to detect harmful content, enforce our policies, or advance AI safety research, or (2) you've explicitly reported the materials to us (for example via our feedback mechanisms).
Please see Section 10 below for details of our legal bases for processing your personal data.
3. How We Disclose Personal Data
Anthropic will disclose personal data to the following categories of third parties for the purposes explained in this Policy:
Affiliates & corporate partners.
Anthropic discloses the categories of personal data described above between and among its affiliates and related entities.
Service providers & business partners.
Anthropic may disclose the categories of personal data described above with service providers and business partners for a variety of business purposes, including website and data hosting, ensuring compliance with industry standards, research, auditing, data processing, and providing you with the services.
Anthropic may also disclose personal data in the following circumstances:
As part of a significant corporate event.
If Anthropic is involved in a merger, corporate transaction, bankruptcy, or other situation involving the transfer of business assets, Anthropic will disclose your personal data as part of these corporate transactions.
Third-Party Websites and Services:
Our Services may involve integrations with, or may direct you to, websites, apps, and services managed by third parties. By interacting with these third parties, you are providing information directly to the third party and not Anthropic and subject to the third party’s privacy policy.If you access third-party services, such as social media sites or other sites linked through the Services (e.g., if you follow a link to our Twitter account), these third-party services will be able to collect personal data about you, including information about your activity on the Services. If we link to a site or service via our Services, you should read their data usage policies or other documentation. Our linking to another site or service doesn’t mean we endorse it or speak for that third party.
Pursuant to regulatory or legal requirements, safety, rights of others, and to enforce our rights or our terms.
We may disclose personal data to governmental regulatory authorities as required by law, including for legal, tax or accounting purposes, in response to their requests for such information or to assist in investigations. We may also disclose personal data to third parties in connection with claims, disputes or litigation, when otherwise permitted or required by law, or if we determine its disclosure is necessary to protect the health and safety of you or any other person, to protect against fraud or credit risk, to enforce our legal rights or the legal rights of others, to enforce contractual commitments that you have made, or as otherwise permitted or required by applicable law.
With an individual's consent.
Anthropic will otherwise disclose personal data when an individual gives us permission or directs us to disclose this information, including as a part of our Services.
You can find information on our
Subprocessor List
about the third parties Anthropic engages to help us process personal data provided to us where Anthropic acts as a data processor, such as with respect to personal data we receive, process, store, or host when you use Anthropic's commercial services.
4. Rights and Choices
Depending on where you live and the laws that apply in your country of residence, you may enjoy certain rights regarding your personal data, as described further below. However, please be aware that these rights are limited, and that the process by which we may need to action your requests regarding our training dataset are complex. We may also decline a request if we have a lawful reason for doing so. That said, we strive to prioritize the protection of personal data, and comply with all applicable privacy laws.
To exercise your rights, you or an authorized agent may submit a request by emailing us at
privacy@anthropic.com
. After we receive your request, we may verify it by requesting information sufficient to confirm your identity. You may also have the right to appeal requests that we deny by emailing
privacy@anthropic.com
. Anthropic will not discriminate based on the exercising of privacy rights you may have. Set out below is a summary of the rights which you may enjoy, depending on the laws that apply in your country of residence.
Right to know:
the right to know what personal data Anthropic processes about you, including the categories of personal data, the categories of sources from which it is collected, the business or commercial purposes for collection, and the categories of third parties to whom we disclose it.
Access & data portability:
the right to request a copy of the personal data Anthropic processes about you, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. In certain cases and subject to applicable law, you have the right to port your information.
Deletion:
the right to request that we delete personal data collected from you when you use our Services, subject to certain exceptions. You also are able to
delete individual conversations
, which will be removed immediately from your conversation history and automatically deleted from our back-end within 30 days. Learn more
here
.
Correction:
the right to request that we correct inaccurate personal data Anthropic retains about you, subject to certain exceptions. Please note that we cannot guarantee the factual accuracy of Outputs. If Outputs contain factually inaccurate personal data relating to you, you can submit a correction request and we will make a reasonable effort to correct this information—but due to the technical complexity of our large language models, it may not always be possible for us to do so.
Objection:
the right to object to processing of your personal data, including profiling conducted on grounds of public or legitimate interest. In places where such a right applies, we will no longer process the personal data in case of such objection unless we demonstrate compelling legitimate grounds for the processing which override your interests, rights, and freedoms, or for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal claims. If we use your information for direct marketing, you can object and opt out of future direct marketing messages using the unsubscribe link in such communications.
Restriction:
the right to restrict our processing of your personal data in certain circumstances.
Withdrawal of consent.
Where Anthropic’s processing of your personal data is based on consent, you have the right to withdraw your consent. The withdrawal of consent will not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal.
Automated decision-making
: Anthropic does not engage in decision making based solely on automated processing or profiling in a manner which produces a legal effect (i.e., impacts your legal rights) or significantly affects you in a similar way (e.g., significantly affects your financial circumstances or ability to access essential goods or services).
Sale & targeted Anthropic marketing of its products and services
. Anthropic does not “sell” your personal data as that term is defined by applicable laws and regulations. You can opt-out of sharing your personal data for targeted advertising to promote our products and services, and we will honor global privacy controls. To learn more,
click here
.
Anthropic gives you access to a variety of tools to help you manage your data. You can access these in your
Privacy Settings
.
5. Data Transfers
When you access our website or Services, your personal data may be transferred to our servers in the US, or to other countries outside the European Economic Area (
“EEA”
) and the UK. This may be a direct provision of your personal data to us, or a transfer that we or a third party make.
Where information is transferred outside the EEA or the UK, we ensure it benefits from an adequate level of data protection by relying on:
Adequacy decisions.
These are decisions from the European Commission under Article 45 GDPR (or equivalent decisions under other laws) where they recognise that a country outside of the EEA offers an adequate level of data protection. We transfer your information as described in “Collection of Personal Data” to some countries with adequacy decisions, such as the countries listed
here
; or
Standard contractual clauses.
The European Commission has approved contractual clauses under Article 46 GDPR that allows companies in the EEA to transfer data outside the EEA. These (and their approved equivalent for the UK and Switzerland) are called standard contractual clauses. We rely on standard contractual clauses to transfer information as described in “Collection of Personal Data” to certain affiliates and third parties in countries without an adequacy decision.
In certain situations, we rely on derogations provided for under applicable data protection law to transfer information to a third country.
6. Data Retention, Data Lifecycle, and Security Controls
Anthropic retains your personal data for as long as reasonably necessary for the purposes and criteria outlined in this Privacy Policy and explained further in our
privacy center
.
When the personal data collected is no longer required by us, we and our service providers will perform the necessary procedures for destroying, deleting, erasing, or converting it into an anonymous form as permitted or required under applicable laws.
Aggregated or De-Identified Information
We may process personal data in an aggregated or de-identified form to analyze the effectiveness of our Services, conduct research, study user behavior, and train our AI models as permitted under applicable laws. For instance:
When you submit Feedback, we disassociate Inputs and Outputs from your user ID to use them for training and improving our models.
If our systems flag Inputs or Outputs for potentially violating our
Usage Policy
, we disassociate the content from your user ID to train our trust and safety internal classification and generative models. However, we may re-identify the Inputs or Outputs to enforce our Usage Policy with the responsible user if necessary.
To improve user experience, we may analyze and aggregate general user behavior and usage data. This information does not identify individual users.
Security Controls Relating to our Processing of Personal Data
We implement appropriate technical and organizational security measures designed to protect personal data from loss, misuse, and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, or destruction.
7. Children
Our Services are not directed towards, and we do not knowingly collect, use, disclose, sell, or share any information from children under the age of 18. If you become aware that a child under the age of 18 has provided any personal data to us while using our Services, please email us at
privacy@anthropic.com
and we will investigate the matter and, if appropriate, delete the personal data.
8. Changes to Our Privacy Policy
Anthropic may update this Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of any material changes to this Privacy Policy, as appropriate, and update the Effective Date at the top of
https://www.anthropic.com/legal/privacy
. You can view a summary of privacy policy changes and previous versions in our
Privacy Center
.
9. Contact Information
If you live in the European Economic Area (EEA), UK or Switzerland (the “European Region”), the data controller responsible for your personal data is Anthropic Ireland, Limited. If you live outside the European Region, the data controller responsible for your personal data is Anthropic PBC.
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, or have any questions, complaints or requests regarding your personal data, you can contact us as described below:
Anthropic PBC with a registered address at 548 Market St, PMB 90375, San Francisco, CA 94104 (United States).
Anthropic Ireland, Limited with a registered address at 6th Floor, South Bank House, Barrow Street. Dublin 4, D04 TR29 (Ireland).
You can email us at
privacy@anthropic.com
and contact our Data Protection Officer at
dpo@anthropic.com
.
Please note that under many countries' laws, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the supervisory authority in the place in which you live or work. A full list of EU supervisory authorities’ contact details is available
here
. If you live or work in the UK, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the
UK Information Commissioner’s Office
. If you live in Brazil, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the
Brazilian Data Protection Authority (ANPD)
.If you live in Australia, you have the right to lodge a complaint with the
Office of the Australian Information Commissioner
.
10. Legal Bases for Processing
Purpose
Type of Data
Legal Basis
To provide, maintain and facilitate any products and services offered to you with respect to your Anthropic account, which are governed by our Terms of Service
Identity and Contact Data
Payment Information
Feedback
Inputs and Outputs
Technical Information
Contract
To provide, maintain and facilitate optional services and features that enhance platform functionality and user experience
Identity and Contact Data
Feedback
Inputs and Outputs
Technical Information
Consent (for precise device location)
Legitimate interests
It is in our and our users' legitimate interests to expand our product features and deliver additional services that enhance platform functionality and user experience.
To communicate with you and to promote our Services
Identity and Contact Data
Communication Information
Technical Information
Where necessary to perform a contract with you, such as processing your contact information to send you a technical announcement about the Services.
Your consent when we ask for it to process your personal data for a specific purpose that we communicate to you, such as processing your contact information to send you certain forms of marketing communications.
Legitimate Interests
It is in our legitimate interests to promote our Services and to send direct marketing.
To create and administer your Anthropic account
Identity and Contact Data
Payment Information
Feedback
Contract
To facilitate payments for products and services provided by Anthropic
Identity and Contact Data
Payment Information
Contract
To prevent and investigate fraud, abuse, and violations of our
Usage Policy
, unlawful or criminal activity, unauthorized access to or use of personal data or Anthropic systems and networks, to protect our rights and the rights of others, and to meet legal, governmental and institutional policy obligations
Identity and Contact Data
Payment Information
Inputs and Outputs
Technical Information
Legitimate interests
Legal obligation
It is in our legitimate interests to protect our business, employees and users from illegal activities, inappropriate behavior or violations of terms that would be detrimental. We also have a duty to cooperate with authorities.
To investigate and resolve disputes
Identity and Contact Data
Inputs and Outputs
Feedback
Legitimate interests
Legal obligation
It is in our legitimate interests to fully understand and make reasonable efforts to resolve customer complaints in order to improve user satisfaction. We also have a legal obligation in some cases.
To investigate and resolve security issues
Identity and Contact Data
Feedback
Technical Information
Inputs and Outputs
Legal obligation
Legitimate interests
It is in our legitimate interests to protect user data and our systems from intrusion or compromise through monitoring and swift response. We also have a legal obligation to provide adequate security safeguards.
To debug and to identify and repair errors that impair existing functionality
Identity and Contact Data
Feedback
Technical Information
Legitimate interests
It is in our legitimate interests to maintain continuous functioning of our services and rapid correction of problems to ensure a positive user experience that encourages engagement.
To improve the Services and conduct research (excluding model training)
Identity and Contact Data
Feedback
Technical Information
Inputs and Outputs
Legitimate interests
It is in our legitimate interests and in the interest of Anthropic users to evaluate the use of the Services and adoption of new features to inform the development of future features and improve direction and development of the Services. Our research also benefits the AI industry and society: it investigates the safety, inner workings, and societal impact of AI models so that artificial intelligence has a positive impact on society as it becomes increasingly advanced and capable.
To improve the Services and conduct research (including model training).
See our
Non-User Privacy Policy
for more details on the data used to train our models.
Feedback
Inputs and Outputs
Data provided through the
Development Partner Program
Consent (when users submit Feedback)
Legitimate interests
It is in our legitimate interests and in the interest of Anthropic users to evaluate the use of the Services and adoption of new features to inform the development of future features and improve direction and development of the Services. Our research also benefits the AI industry and society: it investigates the safety, inner workings, and societal impact of AI models so that artificial intelligence has a positive impact on society as it becomes increasingly advanced and capable.
To enforce our
Terms of Service
and similar terms and agreements, including our
Usage Policy
.
Identity and Contact Data
Inputs and Outputs
Technical Information
Contract
Legitimate interests
In certain circumstances outside of the performance of our contract with you, we may rely on legitimate interests. It is in our legitimate interests to enforce the rules and policies governing use of our services, to maintain intended functionality and value for users. We aim to provide a safe, useful platform.
Use of personal data
11. Supplemental Disclosures for Residents of Canada
These supplemental disclosures contain additional information relevant to residents of Canada. This content should be read in conjunction with the rest of our Privacy Policy. In case of conflict between our Privacy Policy and these supplemental disclosures, the supplemental disclosures shall prevail in relation to residents of Canada.
Consent. By expressly consenting to this Privacy Policy, you confirm you have read, understand, and consent to the collection, use, processing, and disclosure of your personal data in accordance with this Privacy Policy and understand that, in jurisdictions where it is available, Anthropic also relies on other lawful bases for the foregoing as more fully set out in this policy. We will only collect, use and disclose your personal data with your consent, unless otherwise permitted or required by law. Your consent may be given expressly or implied, depending on the circumstances and the sensitivity of the information involved. You may withdraw consent at any time, subject to legal or contractual restrictions and reasonable notice.
Cross-jurisdictional Transfers. By providing us with personal data, you acknowledge and agree that your personal data may be transferred or disclosed to other jurisdictions for processing and storage outside of Canada, including to the United States and the countries listed on our
Subprocessor List
, where laws regarding the protection of personal data may be less stringent than the laws in your jurisdiction. Furthermore, we may disclose your personal data in these jurisdictions in response to legal processes or where we believe in good faith that disclosure is required or permitted by law.
Contact. If you have any questions or comments about our processing of your personal data, or to exercise your rights as outlined in Section 4. (“Rights and Choices”), please contact us at privacy@anthropic.com.
12. Supplemental Disclosures for Residents of Brazil
These supplemental disclosures contain additional information relevant to residents of Brazil. This content should be read in conjunction with the rest of our Privacy Policy. In case of conflict between our Privacy Policy and these supplemental disclosures, the supplemental disclosures shall prevail in relation to residents of Brazil.
Legal Bases. Depending on the specific purpose of the processing, we may rely on different grounds than those listed under section 2, where permitted by and in accordance with the Brazilian General Data Protection Law (LGPD). For example, we may rely on the "exercise of legal rights" basis to process personal data associated with customer complaints and to enforce our Terms of Service and similar terms and agreements, including our Usage Policy.
Data Subject's Rights. LGPD grants certain rights regarding your personal data, which differ from the ones listed under section 4. We will respond to your requests to exercise your rights below in accordance with applicable law:
Confirmation of whether your data is being processed. You have the right to receive a confirmation on whether Anthropic processes your data.Access to your data. You have the right to know what personal data Anthropic processes about you.
Correction of incomplete, inaccurate or outdated data. You have the right to request the correction of your data that is incomplete, inaccurate, or outdated.
Anonymization, blocking or erasure of data. You have the right to request the anonymisation, blocking or erasure of data that is unnecessary, excessive or processed in non-compliance with the provisions of the law.
Portability of personal data to a third party. You have the right to request portability of your data to a third-party, as long as this does not infringe on our trade secrets.
Information of public and private entities with which we shared data. You have the right to request information of public and private entities with which we have shared your data.
Information about the possibility to refuse to provide consent and the respective consequences, when applicable.
Withdrawal of your consent. You have the right to withdraw your consent. This procedure will be carried out free of charge.
Request a review of decisions made solely based on automated processing of personal data.
Please keep in mind that these rights are not absolute and may not apply in certain circumstances. For example, in certain cases we may continue to process and retain data regardless of your request for deletion, objection, blocking or anonymisation, in order to comply with legal, contractual and regulatory obligations, safeguard and exercise rights, including in judicial, administrative and arbitration proceedings and in other cases provided for by law.
International Data Transfers. You acknowledge that Anthropic is a company based and headquartered in the United States. Any information we hold about you will be transferred to, used, processed, and stored in the United States and other countries and territories, which may not have data privacy or data protection laws equivalent to those in your country or territory. For the proper operation of the Services, Anthropic needs to carry out international transfers of personal data. In the case of Brazil, we will rely on standard contractual clauses (SCCs) for our data transfers where required and in instances where they are not covered by an adequacy decision. These SCCs have been approved by the Brazilian Data Protection Authority (ANPD), which is the "competent supervisory authority" for these transfers, as governed by Brazilian Data Protection Laws. You can view the SCCs adopted by the ANPD
here
.
13. Supplemental Disclosures for Residents of the Republic of Korea
Domestic Representative in the Republic of Korea
The domestic representative of Anthropic PBC for data protection and related regulatory purposes under Article 31-2 of the Personal Information Protection Act and Article 32-5 of the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Data Protection, Etc. in the Republic of Korea is as follows:
Entity Name and Representative: Anthropic Korea, Limited (Representative Patrick Azubike Ekeruo)
Registered Address: (Yeoksam-dong), 41F, 152 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, South Korea
Telephone: [+82-2-6252-2080]
Email: [anthropicprivacy@bkl.co.kr]
Data Processors:
Trustees and Contacts
Bae, Kim & Lee LLC (02-3404-0001)
Entrusted Data
Name, ID, phone number, email, address, and other information that you may provide to the domestic representative
Purpose
Assisting with the domestic representative duties
Recipient Location
South Korea
Retention period
The period necessary to process your request
Times and methods of transfer
Telephone, text, or email
Privacy Policy \ Anthropic