--- Content from https://docs.midjourney.com/hc/en-us/articles/32083055291277-Terms-of-Service ---

Skip to main content
Version Effective Date: June 23, 2025
Thank you for using the Midjourney platform. These Terms of Service (“Terms”) govern the relationship between Midjourney, Inc. (“Midjourney”,”we”,”our”) and the entity or person (“Customer, “You”, “Your”) using or accessing our services, applications, or platform through our website available at midjourney.com (the “Site”), through any of our Discord servers, or by any other means (together, the “Services”). These Terms explain what rights you have with respect to images, videos, and other assets which you might generate with the Service (the "Assets"), or prompts you might enter into the Service (the “Inputs”), your use of the Services, and other important topics like arbitration. Our privacy policy outlines how we handle your data
here
. Please carefully read these Terms, along with our privacy policy, and all other documents referenced in these Terms, including the Subscription Plans page and the Community Guidelines below. Together with the Terms, these documents form a single binding agreement between us (the “Agreement”).
This Agreement is effective when the Customer is presented with this Agreement and proceeds to use or access the Services (the "Effective Date") or to receive or distribute Assets. This agreement may be updated and presented again to the Customer from time to time. Continued use of the Services constitutes acceptance of the updated terms. If You do not agree to this Agreement, please stop using or accessing the Services.
1. Service Availability and Quality
We are constantly improving the Services to make them better. The Services are subject to modification and change, including but not limited to the art style of Assets, the algorithms used to generate the Assets, and features available to the Customer. No guarantees are made with respect to the Services’ quality, stability, uptime or reliability. Please do not create any dependencies on any attributes of the Services or the Assets. We will not be liable to You or Your downstream customers for any harm caused by Your dependency on the Service.
Both the Services and the Assets are provided to Customer on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or redistributing the Assets and assume any risks associated with use of the Services.
Midjourney reserves the right to suspend or ban Your access to the Services at any time, and for any reason. You may not access or use the Services for purposes of developing or offering competitive products or services. You may not reverse engineer the Services or the Assets. You may not use automated tools to access, interact with, or generate Assets through the Services. You may not resell or redistribute the Services or access to the Service. Only one user may use the Services per registered account. Each user of the Services may only have one account.
You may not use the Service to try to violate the intellectual property rights of others, including copyright, patent, or trademark rights. Doing so may subject you to penalties including legal action or a permanent ban from the Service.
We reserve the right to investigate complaints or reported violations of this Agreement and to take any action we deem appropriate including but not limited to reporting any suspected unlawful activity to law enforcement officials, regulators, or other third parties and disclosing any information necessary or appropriate to such persons or entities relating to user profiles, e-mail addresses, usage history, posted materials, IP addresses and traffic information.
2. Age Requirements
By accessing the Services, You confirm that You are at least 13 years old and meet the minimum age of digital consent in Your country. If You are old enough to access the Services in Your country, but not old enough to have authority to consent to our terms, Your parent or guardian must agree to our terms on Your behalf.
Please ask Your parent or guardian to read these terms with You. If You are a parent or legal guardian, and You allow Your teenager to use the Services, then these terms also apply to You and You are responsible for Your teenager’s activity on the Services.
Midjourney tries to make its Services PG-13 and family friendly, but the Assets are generated by an artificial intelligence system based on user queries. This is new technology and it does not always work as expected. No guarantees are made as to the suitability of the Assets for the Customer.
3. Your Information
By using the Services, You may provide Midjourney with personal information like Your email address, user name, billing information, favorites, outputs, and text prompts that You enter, or sample images or other content that You upload to the Service. Our privacy policy can be found
here
.
4. Content Rights
Your Rights and Obligations
You own all Assets You create with the Services to the fullest extent possible under applicable law. There are some exceptions:
Your ownership is subject to any obligations imposed by this Agreement and the rights of any third-parties.
If you are a company or any employee of a company with more than $1,000,000 USD a year in revenue, you must be subscribed to a “Pro” or “Mega” plan to own Your Assets.
If you upscale the images of others, these images remain owned by the original creators.
Please consult Your own lawyer if You want more information about the state of current intellectual property law in Your jurisdiction. Your ownership of the Assets you created persists even if in subsequent months You downgrade or cancel Your membership.
Inputs, Assets, and other content such as messages, photos, videos, and documents that you may provide to the Services (such as through uploading, posting, sharing, or chat messages) are collectively, “Content”. You are responsible for all Content that you provide or generate, including ensuring that it does not violate any applicable laws or this Agreement, and that you have all necessary rights and permissions to provide the Content.
Rights You give to Midjourney
By using the Services, You grant to Midjourney, its affiliates, successors, and assigns a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, sublicensable no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Content You input into the Services, as well as any Assets produced by You through the Service. This license survives termination of this Agreement by any party, for any reason.
Remixing and Stealth Mode
Please note: Midjourney is an open community which allows others to use and remix Your Content whenever they are posted in a public setting. By default, Your Content is publicly viewable and remixable. As described below, You grant Midjourney a license to allow this.
If You purchased the Stealth feature as part of Your “Pro” or "Mega" subscription or through the previously available add-on, we agree to make best efforts not to publish any Assets You make in any situation where you have engaged stealth mode in the Services.
Please be aware that any Assets You make in a shared or open space, such as a Discord chatroom, is viewable by anyone in that chatroom, regardless of whether Stealth mode is engaged.
5. DMCA and Takedowns Policy
Notification Procedures
We respect the intellectual property rights of others. If you believe that material located on or linked to by the Services violates your copyright or trademark, please send a notice of claimed infringement by using
this form
or by email to takedown@midjourney.com with the subject "Takedown Request", and include the following:
Your physical or electronic signature.
Identification of the copyrighted work (or mark) you believe to have been infringed or, if the claim involves multiple works, a representative list of such works.
Identification of the material you believe to be infringing in a sufficiently precise and detailed manner to allow us to locate that material.
Adequate information by which we can contact you (including your name, postal address, telephone number, and, if available, email address).
A statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the copyrighted material is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.
A statement that the information in the written notice is accurate.
A statement, under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright owner.
If the copyright owner’s rights arise under the laws of a country other than the United States, please identify the country.
You may also send notices containing the above-required information to the following Address:
Midjourney, Inc.
Attn: Takedowns Department
611 Gateway Blvd. Ste 120
South San Francisco, CA, 94080-7066,
US
Upon receipt of a notice that complies with the foregoing, we reserve the right to remove or disable access to the accused material or disable any links to the material; notify the party accused of infringement that we have removed or disabled access to the identified material; and terminate access to and use of the Services for any user who engages in repeated acts of infringement.
Please be aware that if you knowingly misrepresent that material or activity on the Services is infringing your copyright, you may be held liable for damages (including costs and attorneys’ fees) under Section 512(f) of the DMCA.
Counter-Notification Procedures
If you believe that material was removed or access to it was disabled by mistake or misidentification, you may file a counter-notification with us by submitting a written notification to our copyright agent designated above. Such notification must include substantially the following:
Your physical or electronic signature.
An identification of the material that has been removed or to which access has been disabled and the location at which the material appeared before it was removed or access disabled.
Adequate information by which we can contact you (including your name, postal address, telephone number, and, if available, email address).
A statement under penalty of perjury by you that you have a good faith belief that the material identified above was removed or disabled as a result of a mistake or misidentification of the material to be removed or disabled.
A statement that you will consent to the jurisdiction of the Federal District Court for the judicial district in which your address is located (or if you reside outside the United States for any judicial district in which the Services may be found) and that you will accept service from the person (or an agent of that person) who provided us with the complaint at issue.
Our designated agent to receive counter notices is the same as the agent shown above.
The DMCA allows us to restore the removed content within 10-14 business days unless the complaining party initiates a court action against you during that time period and notifies us of the same.
Please be aware that if you knowingly materially misrepresent that material or activity on the Services was removed or disabled by mistake or misidentification, you may be held liable for damages (including costs and attorney’s; fees) under Section 512(f) of the DMCA.
6. Dispute Resolution and Governing Law
In the event a dispute, controversy, or claim arises out of or relating to these Terms (“Dispute”), the Dispute will be resolved by binding arbitration rather than in court.
The parties will first try in good faith to settle any Dispute within 30 days after the Dispute arises. If the Dispute is not resolved within 30 days, it shall be resolved by binding arbitration by the American Arbitration Association’s International Centre for Dispute Resolution in accordance with its Expedited Commercial Rules in force as of the date of this Agreement ("Rules"). The parties will mutually select one arbitrator. The arbitration will be conducted in English in Santa Clara County, California, USA. By agreeing to mandatory arbitration as set forth herein, You and Midjourney knowingly and irrevocably waive any right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding, or counterclaim, except that either party may apply to any competent court for injunctive relief necessary to protect its rights pending resolution of the arbitration. The arbitrator may order equitable or injunctive relief consistent with the remedies and limitations in the Agreement. The arbitral award will be final and binding on the parties and its execution may be presented in any competent court, including any court with jurisdiction over either party or any of its property.
Each party will bear its own lawyers’ and experts’ fees and expenses, regardless of the arbitrator’s final decision regarding the Dispute.
7. Unlimited Service and Rate Limiting
If You purchase an unlimited plan, we will try to reasonably offer You unlimited access to the Services. However, we reserve the right to rate limit You to prevent quality decay or interruptions to other customers.
8. Payment and Billing
We may invoice You for Your use of the Services through a third party payment service provider. The third party service provider’s terms of service shall govern and supersede this Agreement in case of conflict, solely with respect to payment processing.
You are free to cancel Your plan at any time.
We reserve the right to modify or discontinue any aspect of the Service, including pricing and features, at any time.
We also reserve the right to terminate Your access to the Service for any reason, including for violation of the Community Guidelines or other inappropriate use of the Service. Any violation of Community Guidelines is a breach of this Agreement. You will not be refunded for the current subscription period, but You will not be charged after the current subscription period has ended. Additional information and policies regarding our subscription plans, including details on billing, taxes, refunds, and authorization, can be found
here
.
9. Community Guidelines
Be kind and respect each other and staff. Do not create Assets, use prompts, or submit content that are inherently disrespectful, aggressive, hateful, or otherwise abusive. Violence or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated.
No adult content or gore. Please avoid making visually shocking or disturbing content. We will block some inputs automatically.
Respect others’ creations. Do not distribute or publicly repost the creations of others without their permission.
You may not use the Services to generate images for political campaigns, or to try to influence the outcome of an election.
You may not use the Services or the Assets to attempt to or to actually deceive or defraud anyone.
You may not use the Services for illegal activity nor may you upload content to our servers that involves illegal activity, or where the uploading itself may be illegal.
You may not intentionally mislead recipients of the Assets about their nature or source.
Respect others’ rights. Do not upload others’ private information.
Be careful about sharing. It’s OK to share Your creations outside of the Midjourney community but please consider how others might view Your content.
Banhammer. Any violations of these rules may lead to bans from our services. We are not a democracy. Behave respectfully or lose Your rights to use the Service.
10. Limitation of Liability and Indemnity
We provide the service as is, and we make no promises or guarantees about it.
You understand and agree that we will not be liable to You or any third party for any loss of profits, use, goodwill, or data, or for any incidental, indirect, special, consequential or exemplary damages, however they arise. Our aggregate liability under this Agreement will not exceed the amount You paid for the Services that gave rise to the claim during the 12 months before the claim.
You are responsible for Your use of the service. If You harm someone else or get into a dispute with someone else, we will not be involved.
To the extent permitted by law, you will indemnify and hold us harmless, our affiliates, and our personnel, from and against any costs, losses, liabilities, and expenses (including attorneys’ fees) from third party claims arising out of or relating to your use of the Services and Assets or any violation of these Terms.
You and Midjourney agree that any cause of action arising out of or related to the Services must commence within one (1) year after the cause of action accrues. Otherwise, such cause of action is permanently barred.
11. Image Editor and Video Model
Midjourney’s Image Editor tool (“Editor”) and the Video Model ("Video") are provided as part of the Services and are subject to the terms and conditions outlined in this Agreement. By accessing and using Editor and/or Video, you agree to comply with the conditions set forth in this section, which govern Editor and Video availability and usage. If you do not agree to these Editor and Video terms and conditions, you must not access and must stop using the tool.
Access and Restrictions
Subject to your compliance with this Agreement, Midjourney grants you the right to access and use Editor and Video. In using these tools, you shall not violate any applicable laws, this Agreement, Midjourney Community Guidelines, or any other Midjourney policies or guidelines that are made available to you.
In order to use these tools, you must meet the age requirements as outlined in this Agreement
. Midjourney reserves the right to remove any content that you upload or generate using Editor and/or Video, or suspend or ban your access to them at any time, and for any reason.
Content
You are responsible for all content, including any images, videos, and prompts, that you input or generate when using Editor and/or Video.
You represent and warrant that you have all necessary rights and permissions to provide, edit, generate, and share such content, including obtaining necessary permission from anyone who may be depicted in the content that you upload and edit using Editor
, or input and generate using Video
. You will not upload content, enter prompts, or use Editor or Video in any way that infringes or violates any third-party intellectual property or privacy rights.
12. Miscellaneous
Force Majeure. Neither party will be liable for failure or delay in performance to the extent caused by circumstances beyond its reasonable control, including acts of God, natural disasters, terrorism, riots, or war.
No Agency. This Agreement does not create any agency, partnership, or joint venture between the parties.
Severability. If any part of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the rest of the Agreement will remain in effect.
No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement does not confer any benefits on any third party unless it expressly states that it does.
Survival. The sections and obligations in this Agreement that a reasonable person would expect to survive this agreement, will. Particularly the IP and privacy stuff.
Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, USA, without reference to conflict of law rules. All disputes will be governed by the arbitration agreement above.

--- Content from https://docs.midjourney.com/hc/en-us/articles/32083472637453-Privacy-Policy ---

Skip to main content
Last Updated: June 2, 2025
1. Introduction
This privacy policy (the “Policy”) describes Midjourney, Inc. (“Midjourney”)’s practices with respect to personal data that is collected when you access midjourney.com (the “Site”), or access or use the Midjourney services, applications, or platform through the Site, Discord servers administered by Midjourney, or by any other means (collectively, the “Services”) . Midjourney is a communications technology incubator that provides image generation services to augment human creativity and foster social connection.
As used in this Policy, “personal data” means any information that relates to, describes, or could be used to identify an individual, directly or indirectly.
Applicability:
This Policy applies to personal data that Midjourney collects, uses, and discloses and which may include: (i) data collected through the Services, (ii) data collected through the process of training Midjourney machine learning algorithms, (iii) data collected through Midjourney websites, and (iv) data collected from third party sources. Third party sources may include, but not be limited to: public databases, commercial data sources, and the public internet. When you make purchases, we use third-party payment processors to collect credit card or other financial information. Midjourney does not store the credit card or payment information you provide, only confirmation that payment was made.
This Policy does not apply to the following information:
Personal Data about Midjourney employees and candidates, and certain contractors and agents acting in similar roles.
Changes:
We may update this Policy from time-to-time to reflect changes in legal, regulatory, operational requirements, our practices, and other factors. Please check this Policy periodically for updates. If any of the changes are unacceptable to you, you should cease interacting with us. When required under applicable law, we will notify you of any changes to this Policy.
Definitions:
Through this Policy, You, or Your means the individual accessing or using the Service, or the company, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Service, as applicable. Company (referred to as either "the Company", "We", "Us" or "Our" in this Agreement) refers to Midjourney LLC. Usage Data refers to data collected automatically, either generated by the use of the Service or from the Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit).
2. Collecting and Using Your Personal Data
2.1 Types of Data Collected
2.1.1 Personal Data
While interacting with the Services, You may provide certain personally identifiable information that could be used to contact or identify You. Personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to:
Your user name for the Services
Prompts that you provide (including text, images, and those generated from spoken input and summarized into text),
and other content such as photos, videos, documents, and messages that you input into the Services
Your IP address
Usage Data
Tracking Technologies and Cookies
Contact Information
Organizational Information like your company title
Your Email
Cookies
Other data that you elect to send to Midjourney, such as your survey responses or information you include in communications to us
2.2 Use of Your Personal Data
Midjourney may use Personal Data for the following purposes:
To provide, maintain, and improve our Service,
including to monitor the usage of our Service.
To manage Your account:
to manage Your registration as a user of the Service. The Personal Data You provide can give You access to different functionalities of the Service that are available to You as a registered user.
For the performance of a contract:
the development, compliance and undertaking of the purchase contract for the products, items or services You have purchased or of any other contract with Us through the Service.
To contact You:
To contact You by email, telephone calls, SMS, or other equivalent forms of electronic communication, such as a mobile application's push notifications regarding updates or informative communications related to the functionalities, products or contracted services, including the security updates, when necessary or reasonable for their implementation.
To provide You
with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless You have opted not to receive such information.
For marketing and advertising purposes
, including through cookies and similar technologies with your consent where applicable.
To manage Your requests:
To attend and manage Your requests to Us.
For business transfers:
We may use Your information to evaluate or conduct a merger, divestiture, restructuring, reorganization, dissolution, or other sale or transfer of some or all of Our assets, whether as a going concern or as part of bankruptcy, liquidation, or similar proceeding, in which Personal Data held by Us about our Service users is among the assets transferred.
For other purposes:
We may use Your information for other purposes, such as data analysis, identifying usage trends, determining the effectiveness of our promotional campaigns and to evaluate and improve our Service, products, services, marketing and your experience.
2.3 Sharing of Your Personal Data
We may share Your personal information in the following situations:
With Service Providers, Third Party Vendors, Consultants, and other Business Partners:
We may share Your personal information with these parties in order to provide the Services to You on our behalf, monitor and analyze the use of our Services, contact You, and for other purposes stated in the Agreement.
This may also include third party analytics and advertising partners that use cookies or similar technologies to help measure performance and deliver more relevant ads, where permitted by law.
For business transfers:
We may share or transfer Your personal information in connection with, or during negotiations of, any merger, sale of Company assets, financing, or acquisition of all or a portion of Our business to another company.
With Your consent:
We may disclose Your personal information for any other purpose with Your consent.
With Law Enforcement:
Under certain circumstances, Midjourney may be required to disclose Your Personal Data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency). To the extent we receive a request from Law Enforcement for Your personal data, we will promptly notify You and provide You with a copy of the request, unless we are legally prohibited from doing so.
With Other Parties in order to:
Comply with a legal obligation
Protect and defend the rights or property of the Company
Prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with the Service
Protect the personal safety of Users of the Service or the public
Protect against legal liability
2.4 Retention of Your Personal Data
The Company will retain Your Personal Data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this Privacy Policy. We will retain and use Your Personal Data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies.
The Company will also retain Usage Data for internal analysis purposes. Usage Data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of Our Service, or We are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods.
2.5 Transfer of Your Personal Data
Your information, including Personal Data, is processed at the Company's operating offices and in any other places where the parties involved in the processing are located. It means that this information may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of Your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ from those in Your jurisdiction.
Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by Your submission of such information represents Your agreement to that transfer.
The Company will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that Your data is treated securely and in accordance with this Privacy Policy and no transfer of Your Personal Data will take place to an organization or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of Your data and other personal information.
2.6 Security of Your Personal Data
The security of Your Personal Data is important to Us, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. While We strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect Your Personal Data, We cannot guarantee its absolute security.
3. Children's Privacy
Our Service does not address anyone under the age of 13. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 13. If You are a parent or guardian and You are aware that Your child has provided Us with Personal Data, please contact Us. If We become aware that We have collected Personal Data from anyone under the age of 13 without verification of parental consent, We take steps to remove that information from Our servers.
If We need to rely on consent as a legal basis for processing Your information and Your country requires consent from a parent, We may require Your parent's consent before We collect and use that information.
4. Links to Other Websites
Our Service may contain links to other websites that are not operated by Us. If You click on a third party link, You will be directed to that third party's site. We strongly advise You to review the Privacy Policy of every site You visit.
Third party sites and services (including Discord) have separate practices regarding the protection of personal data that you provide to them. We have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of these third party sites or services.
5. Changes to this Privacy Policy
We may update Our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify You of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.
We will let You know via email and/or a prominent notice on Our Service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the "Last updated" date at the top of this Privacy Policy.
You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes. Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page.
6. Supplemental Terms and Conditions for Certain Regions
Europe
If You are located in the European Economic Area (the “EEA”), Switzerland, or the United Kingdom (the “UK”) Our legal basis for collecting and using the Personal Data described in this Policy will depend on the personal data concerned and the specific context in which we collect it. However, we will normally collect personal data from you only where we have your consent to do so, where we need the personal data to perform a contract with you, or where the processing is in our legitimate interests and not overridden by your data protection interests or fundamental rights and freedoms. In some cases, we may also have a legal obligation to collect personal data from you.
Midjourney may share information internally or with third parties, as further described in this Policy. When we share Personal Data of individuals in the EEA, Switzerland or UK with third parties, we make use of a variety of legal mechanisms to safeguard the transfer including the European Commission-approved standard contractual clauses, as well as additional safeguards where appropriate.
Midjourney uses cookies and similar technologies for analytics and advertising purposes, including to help tailor content and ads. These non-essential cookies will only be used with your explicit consent. You can manage or withdraw your consent at any time by visiting the
Privacy Settings
page. Essential cookies, which are necessary for the website and our Services to function, are always active. Please refer to our
Cookie Policy
for more information.
Additionally You have the following data protection rights:
You can request access, correction, updates or deletion of your Personal Data.
You can object to our processing of your Personal Data, ask us to restrict processing of your Personal Data or request portability of your Personal Data.
If we have collected and processed your Personal Data with your consent, then you can withdraw your consent at any time. Withdrawing your consent will not affect the lawfulness of any processing we conducted prior to your withdrawal, nor will it affect processing of your Personal Data conducted in reliance on lawful processing grounds other than consent.
You have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your Personal Data.
In order to exercise Your rights please visit
www.midjourney.com/account
and follow the instructions listed at the bottom of the page to delete your account and data. Survey data that you may have submitted can also be accessed and deleted at this link. To access or review your account information, please follow the instructions listed
here.
California
This Statement applies solely to residents of California or individuals whose information has been collected in California. Midjourney has adopted and included this notice to comply with the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”). Any terms used in this Statement that are defined in the CCPA have the same meaning given therein.
INFORMATION WE COLLECT
#
Category
Collected?
Disclosed?
1
Identifiers.
Name, alias, postal address, unique personal identifier, online identifier, Internet Protocol (IP) address, email address, account name, social security number, driver’s license number, passport number, or other similar identifiers
YES
YES
2
Personal information categories under the California Customer Records statute (Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.80(e)).
A name, signature, Social Security number, physical characteristics or description, address, telephone number, passport number, driver’s license or state identification card number, insurance policy number, education, employment, employment history, bank account number, credit card number, debit card number, or any other financial information, medical information, or health insurance information. Some personal information included in this category may overlap with other categories.
YES
YES
3
Protected classification characteristics under California or federal law.
Age (40 years or older), race, color, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, religion or creed, marital status, medical condition, physical or mental disability, sex (including gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy or childbirth and related medical conditions), sexual orientation, veteran or military status, genetic information (including familial genetic information).
YES (only the information you share upon consent as part of an applicable survey)
YES
4
Commercial information.
Records of personal property, products or services purchased, obtained, or considered, or other purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies.
YES
YES
5
Biometric information.
Genetic, physiological, behavioral, and biological characteristics, or activity patterns used to extract a template or other identifier or identifying information, such as, fingerprints, faceprints, and voiceprints, iris or retina scans, keystroke, gait, or other physical patterns, and sleep, health, or exercise data.
NO
NO
6
Internet or other similar network activity.
Browsing history, search history, information on a consumer’s interaction with a website, application, or advertisement.
YES
YES
7
Geolocation data.
Physical location or movements.
NO
NO
8
Sensory data.
Audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or similar information.
YES (only images you upload to our services)
YES
9
Professional or employment-related information.
Current or past employment history or performance evaluations.
NO
NO
10
Education Information under California Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. section 1232g, 34 C.F.R. Part 99)
Information that is not “publicly available personally identifiable information” as defined in the California Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. section 1232g, 34 C.F.R. Part 99). Includes education records directly related to a student maintained by an educational institution or party acting on its behalf, like grades, transcripts, class lists and student schedules, identification codes, financial information, or disciplinary records.
NO
NO
11
Inferences
Conclusions that could be used to create a profile reflecting an individual’s preferences, characteristics, psychological trends, predispositions, behavior, attitudes, intelligence, abilities, aptitude.
YES.
YES
YOUR RIGHTS AND CHOICES
The CCPA provides individuals residing in California or whose Personal Information was collected in California with specific rights regarding their Personal information. The below describes your rights and how you may exercise them.
Access to Specific Information and Data Portability Rights
You have the right to request that Midjourney disclose certain information to you about our collection and use of your Personal Information over the past twelve (12) months. Once Midjourney receives and confirms your verifiable information access request, Midjourney must disclose to you: (i) the categories of Personal Information we collected about you; (ii) the categories of sources for the Personal Information we collected about you; (iii) our business or commercial purpose for collecting or, if applicable, selling that Personal Information; (iv) the categories of third parties with whom we share that Personal Information; (v) the specific data points or pieces of Personal Information we collected about you. If we disclosed for a business purpose or sold your Personal Information, Midjourney must also provide separate lists that: (x) identify the personal information categories that were sold to each category of recipient in connection with sales of your Personal Information; and (y) identify the personal information categories that were provided to each category of recipient in connection with business purposes disclosures of your Personal Information..
Deletion Request Rights
You have the right to request that Midjourney delete any of your Personal Information that we collected from you and/or retained. Unless subject to a certain limited exception, once Midjourney receives and confirms your verifiable data deletion request, we will delete (and direct our service providers to delete) your personal information from our records. Midjourney will notify you promptly if it determines it must deny your deletion request.
Do Not Sell or Share Opt-Out Rights
You have the right to opt-out of any “sale” or “sharing”
, as defined by the CCPA, of Personal Information by Midjourney. While, Midjourney does not sell your information
, we may share it, for example, through advertising cookies that allow our third party
partners to deliver
relevant and personalized ads. You can opt-out of such sharing at any time by updating your preferences in the
Privacy Settings
page.
EXERCISING YOUR RIGHTS
To exercise your access, data portability, and deletion or do not sell opt-out rights described above, please visit
www.midjourney.com/account
and follow the instructions listed at the bottom of the page to delete your account and data (including any survey responses), or go
here
and follow the instructions listed to access or review your account information.
You may only make a verifiable consumer request for access or data portability up to two times within a 12-month period. You may make a verifiable do not sell opt-out request at any time. Any such request must: (i) provide sufficient information that allows Us to reasonably verify that you are the person about whom we collected personal information or an authorized representative thereof; and (ii) describe your request with sufficient detail such that we may understand, evaluate, and respond to it. Midjourney cannot respond to your request or provide you with personal information if we cannot verify your identity or authority to make the request and confirm the personal information relates to you. Making a verifiable consumer request does not require you to create an account with Midjourney. Midjourney will only use personal information provided in a verifiable consumer request to verify the requestor’s identity or authority to make the request. Only you or a person registered with the California Secretary of State that you authorize to act on your behalf may make a verifiable consumer request related to your Personal Information. You may also make a verifiable consumer request on behalf of your minor child.
Response Timing and Format
We endeavor to respond to a verifiable consumer request within 45 days of its receipt. If we require more time (up to 90 days), we will inform you in writing of the extension period and the reason for it. Midjourney will deliver any required or requested responses or other communications in writing to you by email. Any disclosures we provide will only cover the 12-month period preceding the verifiable consumer request’s receipt. If applicable, the response we provide will also explain any reasons we cannot comply with a request. For data portability requests, Midjourney will provide your personal information in a format that is readily usable and transferable. Midjourney does not charge a fee to process or respond to your verifiable consumer request unless such requests become excessive, repetitive, or manifestly unfounded or as otherwise permitted by the CCPA. If we determine that a request warrants charging a fee, we will notify you and provide you with a cost estimate before completing your request.