--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/terms-of-service ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Ask anything
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Terms of Service
Last updated: January 23rd, 2026
Welcome to the Terms of Service (these “Terms”) for Perplexity AI, Inc.’s (“Company”, “we” or “us”) websites,
www.perplexity.ai
and
https://labs.perplexity.ai
(the “Websites”), artificial-intelligence powered search engine (the “Perplexity Engine”), related mobile application (the “App”), and any content, tools, features and functionality offered on or through our Website, the Perplexity Engine and the App (collectively, the “Services”). These Terms do not govern use of the Company’s APIs (which are governed by the Perplexity API Terms of Service located here:
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/perplexity-api-terms-of-service
) or Perplexity Pro for Enterprise (which is governed by the Perplexity Pro for Enterprise Terms located here: (
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/enterprise-terms-of-service
).
These Terms govern your access to and use of the Services. Please read these Terms carefully, as they include important information about your legal rights. By accessing and/or using the Services, you are agreeing to these Terms. If you do not understand or agree to these Terms, please do not use the Services.
For purposes of these Terms, “you” and “your” means you as the user of the Services. If you use the Services on behalf of a company or other entity then “you” includes you and that entity, and you represent and warrant that (a) you are an authorized representative of the entity with the authority to bind the entity to these Terms, and (b) you agree to these Terms on the entity’s behalf.
SECTION 9 CONTAINS AN ARBITRATION CLAUSE AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER. BY AGREEING TO THESE TERMS, YOU AGREE (A) TO RESOLVE ALL DISPUTES (WITH LIMITED EXCEPTION) RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S SERVICES AND/OR PRODUCTS THROUGH BINDING INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION, WHICH MEANS THAT YOU WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE THOSE DISPUTES DECIDED BY A JUDGE OR JURY, AND (B) TO WAIVE YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN CLASS ACTIONS, CLASS ARBITRATIONS, OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTIONS, AS SET FORTH BELOW. YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO OPT-OUT OF THE ARBITRATION CLAUSE AND THE CLASS ACTION WAIVER AS EXPLAINED IN SECTION 9.
THE SERVICES
1.1  Input and Output.
As a part of the Services, you can input, upload and submit information and other materials (“Input”) into the Perplexity Engine, and the Perplexity Engine will use artificial intelligence tools and functionalities to generate responses based on your Input (“Output”). Your use of the Perplexity Engine, including any Outputs, may also be subject to license and use restrictions set forth in a third-party LLM license, if applicable. Any Input will be deemed “Your Content” under these Terms.
You may not direct the Services to generate any Output in violation of any applicable intellectual property right, contractual restriction or other law. By submitting any Input through the Services, you represent that you have obtained all rights, licenses, consents, permissions, power and/or authority necessary to submit and use (and allow us to use) such Input in connection with the Services. You represent and warrant that your submission of Input in connection with your use of the Services, including to generate Output, will not breach any law or any third party’s terms and conditions associated with such Input. You may not (i) publish any Output generated by the Services without clearly citing the Services, or (ii) misrepresent the source of any Output or the fact that it was generated by artificial intelligence.
1.2 Eligibility
. You must be 13 years of age or older to use the Services. Minors under the age of majority in their jurisdiction but that are at least 13 years of age are only permitted to use the Services if the minor’s parent or guardian accepts these Terms on the minor’s behalf prior to use of the Services. Children under the age of 13 are not permitted to use the Services. By using the Services, you represent and warrant that you meet these requirements.
USER ACCOUNTS, SUBSCRIPTIONS AND FREE TRIALS
2.1 Creating and Safeguarding Your Account.
To use certain of the Services, you need to create an account or link another account, such as your Apple or Google account (“Account”). You agree to provide us with accurate, complete and updated information for your Account. You can access, edit and update your Account through the settings page of your Account profile. You are solely responsible for any activity on your Account and for maintaining the confidentiality and security of your password. We are not liable for any acts or omissions by you in connection with your Account. You must immediately notify us at
support@perplexity.ai
if you know or have any reason to suspect that your Account or password have been stolen, misappropriated or otherwise compromised, or in case of any actual or suspected unauthorized use of your Account. You agree not to create an Account if we have previously removed your Account, or we previously banned you from any of our Services, unless we provide written consent otherwise.
2.2 Paid Services.
Certain of our Services are free; however, if you subscribe to any of our paid Services, you agree to pay us the applicable fees and taxes in U.S. Dollars. Failure to pay these fees and taxes will result in the termination of your access to the paid Services. You agree that (a) if you purchase a recurring subscription to any of the Services, we may store and continue billing your payment method (e.g. credit card) to avoid interruption of such Services, and (b) we may calculate taxes payable by you based on the billing information that you provide us at the time of purchase.  We reserve the right to change our subscription plans or adjust pricing for the paid Services in any manner and at any time as we may determine in our sole and absolute discretion. Except as otherwise provided in these Terms, any price changes or changes to your subscription plan will take effect following reasonable notice to you. All subscriptions are payable in accordance with payment terms in effect at the time the subscription becomes payable. Payment can be made by credit card, debit card, or other means that we may make available. Subscriptions will not be processed until payment has been received in full, and any holds on your account by any other payment processor are solely your responsibility.
2.3 Subscription Renewals and Cancellations. You agree that if you purchase a subscription, your subscription will automatically renew at the subscription period frequency referenced on your subscription page (or if not designated, then monthly) and at the then-current rates, and your payment method will automatically be charged at the start of each new subscription period for the fees and taxes applicable to that period.  To avoid future subscription charges, you must cancel your subscription before the subscription period renewal date through the settings page of your Account profile or by emailing
support@perplexity.ai
.
2.4 No Subscription Refunds.
Except as expressly set forth in these Terms or in any country-specific billing and consumer information pages, payments for any subscriptions to the Services are nonrefundable and there are no credits for partially used periods. Following any cancellation by you, however, you will continue to have access to the paid Services through the end of the subscription period for which payment has already been made.
2.5 Free Trials.
You may receive free trial access to the Services, including through third-party promotions. Free trials may be subject to additional terms and conditions, are non-transferrable, and have no monetary value. Violating any additional terms and conditions or these Terms may result in immediate termination of your free trial. Free trials are available only to users that have not previously subscribed to the Services or previously received a free trial. In order to receive your free trial, you must agree to Perplexity’s sign-up requirements, which Perplexity may update from time-to-time and which may include providing a valid credit card and email address. If a credit card is required, your credit card will not be charged until after your free trial expires. Upon expiration of your free trial, you will be charged the then-current subscription price for the applicable Service. You may cancel your free trial at any time by navigating to perplexity.ai/account/details, selecting “view details” and “cancel subscription” while logged in.
ORDERS FOR PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES
3.1 Payment.
The Services may permit you to purchase certain other products or services, such as merchandise (“Offerings”).  You acknowledge and agree that all information you provide with regards to a purchase of Offerings, including, without limitation, credit card, PayPal, or other payment information, is accurate, current and complete. You represent and warrant that you have the legal right to use the payment method you provide to us or our payment processor, including, without limitation, any credit card you provide when completing a transaction. We reserve the right, with or without prior notice and in our sole and complete discretion, to (a) discontinue, modify, or limit the available quantity of, any Offerings, and (b) refuse to allow any user to purchase any Offering or deliver such Offerings to a user or a user designated address. When you purchase Offerings, you (i) agree to pay the price for such Offerings as set forth in the applicable Service, and all shipping and handling charges and all applicable taxes in connection with your purchase (the “Full Purchase Amount”), and (ii) authorize us to charge your credit card or other payment method for the Full Purchase Amount. Unless otherwise noted, all currency references are in U.S. Dollars. All fees and charges are payable in accordance with payment terms in effect at the time the fee or the charge becomes payable. Payment can be made by credit card, debit card, or through PayPal or other means that we may make available. Orders will not be processed until payment has been received in full, and any holds on your account by PayPal or any other payment processor are solely your responsibility.
3.2 Promotional Codes.
We may offer certain promotional codes, referral codes, discount codes, coupon codes or similar offers (“Promotional Codes”) that may be redeemed for discounts on benefits related to the Services or future Offerings, subject to any additional terms that the Company establishes. You agree that Promotional Codes: (a) must be used in a lawful manner; (b) must be used for the intended audience and purpose; (c) may not be duplicated, sold or transferred in any manner, or made available by you to the general public (whether posted to a public forum, coupon collecting service, or otherwise), unless expressly permitted by the Company; (d) may be disabled or have additional conditions applied to them by the Company at any time for any reason without liability to the Company; (e) may only be used pursuant to the specific terms that the Company establishes for such Promotional Code; (f) are not valid for cash or other credits or points; and (g) may expire prior to your use.
3.3 Changes and Pricing.
The Company may, at any time, revise or change the pricing, availability, specifications, content, descriptions or features of any Offerings. While we attempt to be as accurate as we can in our descriptions for the Offerings, we do not warrant that Offering descriptions are accurate, complete, reliable, current, or error-free. The inclusion of any Offerings for purchase through the Services at a particular time does not imply or warrant that the Offerings will be available at any other time. We reserve the right to change prices for Offerings displayed on the Services at any time, and to correct pricing errors that may inadvertently occur (and to cancel any orders in our sole discretion that were purchased with pricing errors). All such changes shall be effective immediately upon posting of such new Offering prices to the Services and/or upon making the customer aware of the pricing error.
3.4 Order Acceptance; Shipment.
Once we receive your order for an Offering, we will provide you with an order confirmation. Your receipt of an order confirmation, however, does not signify our acceptance of your order, nor does it constitute confirmation of our offer to sell; we are simply confirming that we received your order. We reserve the right at any time after receiving your order to accept or decline your order for any reason and in our sole discretion. If we cancel an order after you have already been billed, then we will refund the billed amount. Title and risk of loss for any purchases of physical products pass to you upon our delivery to our carrier. We reserve the right to ship partial orders (at no additional cost to you), and the portion of any order that is partially shipped may be charged at the time of shipment. All orders are shipped using one of our third-party couriers. Online tracking may be available at our courier’s website (for example, FedEx), though we make no warranties regarding its availability because it is not under our control. While deliveries may be scheduled for a specified arrival, we cannot guarantee delivery by any specific date or time.
3.5 Manufacturer’s Warranty and Disclaimers.
Certain of the Offerings made available on the Services are manufactured by third parties (“Third-Party Offerings”).  The availability of Third-Party Offerings through the Services does not indicate an affiliation with or endorsement by us of any Third-Party Offering or its manufacturer. Accordingly, we do not provide any warranties with respect to the Third-Party Offerings.
3.6 No Delivery to Children.
Users are not allowed to give the Company the personal information of any persons under the age of 13 for delivery or shipping purposes or any other reason.
LOCATION OF OUR PRIVACY POLICY
4.1 Privacy Policy.
Our Privacy Policy describes how we handle the information you provide to us when you use the Services. For an explanation of our privacy practices, please visit our Privacy Policy located at
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/privacy-policy
.
RIGHTS WE GRANT YOU
5. 1 Right to Use Services.
We hereby permit you to use the Services for your personal, non-commercial use only, provided that you comply with these Terms in connection with all such use.  If any software, content or other materials owned or controlled by us are distributed to you as part of your use of the Services, we hereby grant you, a personal, non-assignable, non-sublicensable, non-transferrable, and non-exclusive right and license to access and display such software, content and materials provided to you as part of the Services (and right to download a single copy of the App onto your applicable equipment or device), in each case for the sole purpose of enabling you to use the Services as permitted by these Terms. Your access and use of the Services may be interrupted from time to time for any of several reasons, including, without limitation, the malfunction of equipment, periodic updating, maintenance or repair of the Service or other actions that Company, in its sole discretion, may elect to take.
5.2 Restrictions On Your Use of the Services.
You may not do any of the following in connection with your use of the Services, unless applicable laws or regulations prohibit these restrictions or you have our written permission to do so:
download, modify, copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, duplicate, publish, license, create derivative works from, or offer for sale any information contained on, or obtained from or through, the Services, except for temporary files that are automatically cached by your web browser for display purposes, or as otherwise expressly permitted in these Terms;
duplicate, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or decode the Services (including any underlying idea or algorithm), or attempt to do any of the same;
use, reproduce or remove any copyright, trademark, service mark, trade name, slogan, logo, image, or other proprietary notation displayed on or through the Services;
use automation software (bots), hacks, modifications (mods) or any other unauthorized third-party software designed to modify the Services;
exploit the Services for any commercial purpose, including without limitation communicating or facilitating any commercial advertisement or solicitation;
access or use the Services in any manner that could disable, overburden, damage, disrupt or impair the Services or interfere with any other party’s access to or use of the Services or use any device, software or routine that causes the same;
attempt to gain unauthorized access to, interfere with, damage or disrupt the Services, accounts registered to other users, or the computer systems or networks connected to the Services;
circumvent, remove, alter, deactivate, degrade or thwart any technological measure or content protections of the Services, third-party systems or third-party content;
use any robot, spider, crawlers, scraper, or other automatic device, process, software or queries that intercepts, “mines,” scrapes, extracts, or otherwise accesses the Services to monitor, extract, copy or collect information or data from or through the Services, or engage in any manual process to do the same;
introduce any viruses, trojan horses, worms, logic bombs or other materials that are malicious or technologically harmful into our systems;
submit, transmit, display, perform, post or store any content that is unlawful, defamatory, obscene, excessively violent, pornographic, invasive of privacy or publicity rights, harassing, abusive, hateful, or cruel, or otherwise use the Services in a manner that is obscene, excessively violent, harassing, hateful, cruel, abusive, pornographic, inciting, organizing, promoting or facilitating violence or criminal activities;
violate any applicable law or regulation in connection with your access to or use of the Services;  or
access or use the Services in any way not expressly permitted by these Terms.
5.3 Use of the App.
You are responsible for providing the mobile device, wireless service plan, software, Internet connections and/or other equipment or services that you need to download, install and use the App.  We do not guarantee that the App can be accessed and used on any particular device or with any particular service plan.  We do not guarantee that the App or will be available in, or that orders for Offerings can be placed from, any particular geographic location. As part of the Services and to update you regarding the status of deliveries, you may receive push notifications, local client notifications, text messages, picture messages, alerts, emails or other types of messages directly sent to you in connection with the App (“Push Messages”). You acknowledge that, when you use the App, your wireless service provider may charge you fees for data, text messaging and/or other wireless access, including in connection with Push Messages. You have control over the Push Messages settings, and can opt in or out of these Push Messages through the Services or through your mobile device’s operating system (with the possible exception of infrequent, important service announcements and administrative messages). Please check with your wireless service provider to determine what fees apply to your access to and use of the App, including your receipt of Push Messages from the Company. You are solely responsible for any fee, cost or expense that you incur to download, install and/or use the App on your mobile device, including for your receipt of Push Messages from the Company.
5.4 Mobile Software from the Apple App Store.
The following terms and conditions apply to you only if you are using the App from the Apple App Store. To the extent the other terms and conditions of these Terms are less restrictive than, or otherwise conflict with, the terms and conditions of this paragraph, the more restrictive or conflicting terms and conditions in this paragraph apply, but solely with respect to your use of the App from the Apple App Store. You acknowledge and agree that these Terms are solely between you and the Company, not Apple, and that Apple has no responsibility for the App or content thereof. Your use of the App must comply with the App Store’s applicable terms of use. You acknowledge that Apple has no obligation whatsoever to furnish any maintenance and support services with respect to the App. In the event of any failure of the App to conform to any applicable warranty, you may notify Apple, and Apple will refund the purchase price, if any, for the App to you. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, Apple will have no other warranty obligation whatsoever with respect to the App, and any other claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs or expenses attributable to any failure to conform to any warranty will be solely governed by these Terms. You and the Company acknowledge that Apple is not responsible for addressing any claims of yours or any third party relating to the App or your possession and/or use of the App, including, but not limited to: (a) product liability claims, (b) any claim that the App fails to conform to any applicable legal or regulatory requirement, and (c) claims arising under consumer protection or similar legislation. You and the Company acknowledge that, in the event of any third-party claim that the App or your possession and use of that App infringes that third party’s intellectual property rights, the Company, not Apple, will be solely responsible for the investigation, defense, settlement and discharge of any such intellectual property infringement claim to the extent required by these Terms. You must comply with applicable third-party terms of agreement when using the App. You and the Company acknowledge and agree that Apple, and Apple’s subsidiaries, are third-party beneficiaries of these Terms as they relate to your use of the App, and that, upon your acceptance of these Terms, Apple will have the right (and will be deemed to have accepted the right) to enforce these Terms against you as a third-party beneficiary thereof.
5.5 Beta Offerings.
From time to time, we may, in our sole discretion, include certain test or beta features or products in the Services (“Beta Offerings”) as we may designate from time to time. Your use of any Beta Offering is completely voluntary. The Beta Offerings are provided on an “as is” basis and may contain errors, defects, bugs, or inaccuracies that could cause failures, corruption or loss of data and information from any connected device. You acknowledge and agree that all use of any Beta Offering is at your sole risk.  You agree that once you use a Beta Offering, your content or data may be affected such that you may be unable to revert back to a prior non-beta version of the same or similar feature. Additionally, if such reversion is possible, you may not be able to return or restore data created within the Beta Offering back to the prior non-beta version. If we provide you any Beta Offerings on a closed beta or confidential basis, we will notify you of such as part of your use of the Beta Offerings. For any such confidential Beta Offerings, you agree to not disclose, divulge, display, or otherwise make available any of the Beta Offerings without our prior written consent.
OWNERSHIP AND CONTENT
6.1 Ownership of the Services.
The Services, including their “look and feel” (e.g., text, graphics, images, logos), proprietary content, information and other materials, are protected under copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws. You agree that the Company and/or its licensors own all right, title and interest in and to the Services (including any and all intellectual property rights therein) and you agree not to take any action(s) inconsistent with such ownership interests.  We and our licensors reserve all rights in connection with the Services and its content (other than Your Content), including, without limitation, the exclusive right to create derivative works.
6.2 Ownership of Trademarks.
The Company’s name, trademarks, logo and all related names, logos, product and service names, designs and slogans are trademarks of the Company or its affiliates or licensors.  Other names, logos, product and service names, designs and slogans that appear on the Services are the property of their respective owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or sponsored by us.
6.3 Ownership of Feedback.
We welcome feedback, comments and suggestions for improvements to the Services (“Feedback”). You acknowledge and expressly agree that any contribution of Feedback does not and will not give or grant you any right, title or interest in the Services or in any such Feedback. All Feedback becomes the sole and exclusive property of the Company, and the Company may use and disclose Feedback in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever without further notice or compensation to you and without retention by you of any proprietary or other right or claim. You hereby assign to the Company any and all right, title and interest (including, but not limited to, any patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark, show-how, know-how, moral rights and any and all other intellectual property right) that you may have in and to any and all Feedback.
6.4 Your Content.
In connection with your use of the Services, you may be able to post, upload, or submit content to be made available through the Services (collectively with Input, “Your Content”).  As between the Company and you, the Company does not claim any ownership in Your Content; provided that, the Company or its affiliates and their respective licensors own and will continue to own the Services and any and all other software or technology that was used to generate any Output.
In order to operate the Service, we must obtain from you certain license rights in Your Content so that actions we take in operating the Service are not considered legal violations.  Accordingly, by using the Service and uploading Your Content, you grant us a license to access, use, host, cache, store, reproduce, transmit, display, publish, distribute, and modify Your Content to operate, improve, promote and provide the Services, including to reproduce, transmit, display, publish and distribute Output based on your Input. You agree that these rights and licenses are royalty free, transferable, sub-licensable, worldwide and irrevocable (for so long as Your Content is stored with us), and include a right for us to make Your Content available to, and pass these rights along to, others with whom we have contractual relationships related to the provision of the Services, solely for the purpose of providing such Services, and to otherwise permit access to or disclose Your Content to third parties if we determine such access is necessary to comply with our legal obligations.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company reserves the right, and has absolute discretion, to remove, screen, edit, or delete any of Your Content at any time, for any reason, and without notice. By posting or submitting Your Content through the Services, you represent and warrant that you have, or have obtained, all rights, licenses, consents, permissions, power and/or authority necessary to grant the rights granted herein for Your Content. You agree that Your Content will not contain material subject to copyright or other proprietary rights, unless you have the necessary permission or are otherwise legally entitled to post the material and to grant us the license described above.
6.5 Notice of Infringement – DMCA (Copyright) Policy.
If you believe that any text, graphics, photos, audio, videos or other materials or works uploaded, downloaded or appearing on the Services have been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, you may submit a notification to our copyright agent in accordance with 17 USC 512(c) of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (the “DMCA”), by providing the following information in writing:
identification of the copyrighted work that is claimed to be infringed;
identification of the allegedly infringing material that is requested to be removed, including a description of where it is located on the Service;
information for our copyright agent to contact you, such as an address, telephone number and e-mail address;
a statement that you have a good faith belief that the identified, allegedly infringing use is not authorized by the copyright owners, its agent or the law;
a statement that the information above is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that you are the copyright owner or the authorized person to act on behalf of the copyright owner; and
the physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright or of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.
Notices of copyright infringement claims should be sent by mail to: 115 Sansome St. Suite 900, San Francisco, CA 94104 (US) or by e-mail to
support@perplexity.ai
.  It is our policy, in appropriate circumstances and at our discretion, to disable or terminate the accounts of users who repeatedly infringe copyrights or intellectual property rights of others.
A user of the Services who has uploaded or posted materials identified as infringing as described above may supply a counter-notification pursuant to sections 512(g)(2) and (3) of the DMCA. When we receive a counter-notification, we may reinstate the posts or material in question, in our sole discretion. To file a counter-notification with us, you must provide a written communication (by fax or regular mail or by email) that sets forth all of the items required by sections 512(g)(2) and (3) of the DMCA. Please note that you will be liable for damages if you materially misrepresent that content or an activity is not infringing the copyrights of others.
THIRD-PARTY SERVICES AND MATERIALS
7.1 Use of Third-Party Materials in the Services.
Certain Services may display, include or make available content, data, information, applications or materials from third parties (“Third-Party Materials”) or provide links to certain third-party websites. Third-Party Materials include the open source software or other third-party software, such as third-party large language models, that are included in the artificial intelligence and machine learning models you access or use through the Services. By using the Services, you acknowledge and agree that the Company is not responsible for examining or evaluating the content, accuracy, completeness, availability, timeliness, validity, copyright compliance, legality, decency, quality or any other aspect of such Third-Party Materials or websites. We do not warrant or endorse and do not assume and will not have any liability or responsibility to you or any other person for any third-party services, Third-Party Materials or third-party websites, or for any other materials, products, or services of third parties. Third-Party Materials and links to other websites are provided solely as a convenience to you.
DISCLAIMERS, LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION
8.1 Disclaimers.
Your access to and use of the Services are at your own risk. You understand and agree that the Services, including any Offerings, are provided to you on an “AS IS” and “AS AVAILABLE” basis. Without limiting the foregoing, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, the Company, its parents, affiliates, related companies, officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, partners and licensors (the “Company Entities”) DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. The Company Entities make no warranty or representation and disclaim all responsibility and liability for: (a) the completeness, accuracy, availability, timeliness, security or reliability of the Services; (b) any harm to your computer system, loss of data, or other harm that results from your access to or use of the Services; (c) the operation or compatibility with any other application or any particular system or device; (d) whether the Services will meet your requirements or be available on an uninterrupted, secure or error-free basis; and (e) the deletion of, or the failure to store or transmit, Your Content and other communications maintained by the Services. No advice or information, whether oral or written, obtained from the Company Entities or through the Services, will create any warranty or representation not expressly made herein.
You acknowledge that the Services may generate Output containing incorrect, biased, or incomplete information. The Company shall have no responsibility or liability to you for the infringement of the rights of any third party in your use of any Output. You should not rely on the Services or any Output for advice of any kind, including medical, legal, investment, financial or other professional advice. Any Output is not a substitute for advice from a qualified professional. You acknowledge that due to the nature of generative artificial intelligence tools, other users of the Services may create and use their own Output that is similar or the same as your Output, such as because the same or similar Input was provided, and you agree that such other users can use their own individually created Output for their own internal business purposes.
THE LAWS OF CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS, INCLUDING THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY, DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 8.2 BELOW. IF THESE LAWS APPLY TO YOU, SOME OR ALL OF THE ABOVE DISCLAIMERS, EXCLUSIONS, OR LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU, AND YOU MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL RIGHTS.
THE COMPANY ENTITIES TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY AND ASSUME NO LIABILITY FOR ANY CONTENT THAT YOU, ANOTHER USER, OR A THIRD PARTY CREATES, UPLOADS, POSTS, SENDS, RECEIVES, OR STORES ON OR THROUGH OUR SERVICES, INCLUDING ANY OUTPUT.
YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT YOU MAY BE EXPOSED TO CONTENT THAT MIGHT BE OFFENSIVE, ILLEGAL, MISLEADING, OR OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE, NONE OF WHICH THE COMPANY ENTITIES WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR.
8.2 Limitations of Liability.
TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, YOU AGREE THAT IN NO EVENT WILL THE COMPANY ENTITIES BE LIABLE (A) FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING INDIRECT SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION OR ANY OTHER DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICES), HOWEVER CAUSED AND UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER UNDER THESE TERMS OR OTHERWISE ARISING IN ANY WAY IN CONNECTION WITH THE SERVICES (INCLUDING ANY OUTPUT) OR THESE TERMS AND WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) EVEN IF THE COMPANY ENTITIES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE, OR (B) FOR ANY OTHER CLAIM, DEMAND OR DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM OR ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THESE TERMS, OUTPUT, OR THE DELIVERY, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SERVICES OR OUTPUT.  THE COMPANY ENTITIES’ TOTAL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES FINALLY AWARDED SHALL NOT EXCEED THE GREATER OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00), OR THE AMOUNT YOU PAID THE COMPANY ENTITIES, IF ANY, IN THE PAST SIX (6) MONTHS FOR THE SERVICES (OR OFFERINGS PURCHASED ON THE SERVICES) GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS WILL APPLY EVEN IF THE ABOVE STATED REMEDY FAILS OF ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.
8.3 Indemnification.
By entering into these Terms and accessing or using the Services, you agree that you shall defend, indemnify and hold the Company Entities harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs) incurred by the Company Entities arising out of or in connection with: (a) your violation or breach of any term of these Terms or any applicable law or regulation; (b) your violation of any rights of any third party; (c) your misuse of the Services; (d) Your Content; or (e) your negligence or wilful misconduct. If you are obligated to indemnify any Company Entity hereunder, then you agree that Company (or, at its discretion, the applicable Company Entity) will have the right, in its sole discretion, to control any action or proceeding and to determine whether Company wishes to settle, and if so, on what terms, and you agree to fully cooperate with Company in the defense or settlement of such claim.
ARBITRATION AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER
9.1 PLEASE READ THIS SECTION CAREFULLY – IT MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS, INCLUDING YOUR RIGHT TO FILE A LAWSUIT IN COURT AND TO HAVE A JURY HEAR YOUR CLAIMS. IT CONTAINS PROCEDURES FOR MANDATORY BINDING ARBITRATION AND A CLASS ACTION WAIVER.
9.2 Informal Process First.
You and the Company agree that in the event of any dispute, either party will first contact the other party and make a good faith sustained effort to resolve the dispute before resorting to more formal means of resolution, including without limitation, any court action, after first allowing the receiving party 30 days in which to respond.  Both you and the Company agree that this dispute resolution procedure is a condition precedent which must be satisfied before initiating any arbitration against the other party.
9.3 Arbitration Agreement and Class Action Waiver.
After the informal dispute resolution process, any remaining dispute, controversy, or claim (collectively, “Claim”) relating in any way to the Company’s services and/or products, including the Services, and any use or access or lack of access thereto, will be resolved by arbitration, including threshold questions of arbitrability of the Claim. You and the Company agree that any Claim will be settled by final and binding arbitration, using the English language, administered by JAMS under its Comprehensive Arbitration Rules and Procedures (the “JAMS Rules”) then in effect (those rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this section, and as of the date of these Terms).  Because your contract with the Company, these Terms, and this Arbitration Agreement concern interstate commerce, the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs the arbitrability of all disputes. However, the arbitrator will apply applicable substantive law consistent with the FAA and the applicable statute of limitations or condition precedent to suit. Arbitration will be handled by a sole arbitrator in accordance with the JAMS Rules. Judgment on the arbitration award may be entered in any court that has jurisdiction. Any arbitration under these Terms will take place on an individual basis – class arbitrations and Class Actions (as defined below) are not permitted. You understand that by agreeing to these Terms, you and the Company are each waiving the right to trial by jury or to participate in a Class Action or class arbitration.
9.4 Exceptions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, you and the Company agree that the following types of disputes will be resolved in a court of proper jurisdiction:
Claims within the jurisdiction of a small claims court consistent with the jurisdictional and dollar limits that may apply, as long as it is brought and maintained as an individual dispute and not as a class, representative, or consolidated action or proceeding;
Claims where the sole form of relief sought is injunctive relief (including public injunctive relief); or
intellectual property Claims.
9.5 Costs of Arbitration.
Payment of all filing, administration, and arbitrator costs and expenses will be governed by the JAMS Rules, except that if you demonstrate that any such costs and expenses owed by you under those rules would be prohibitively more expensive than a court proceeding, the Company will pay the amount of any such costs and expenses that the arbitrator determines are necessary to prevent the arbitration from being prohibitively more expensive than a court proceeding (subject to possible reimbursement as set forth below). Fees and costs may be awarded as provided pursuant to applicable law. If the arbitrator finds that either the substance of your Claim or the relief sought in the demand is frivolous or brought for an improper purpose (as measured by the standards set forth in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11(b)), then the payment of all fees will be governed by the JAMS Rules. In that case, you agree to reimburse the Company for all monies previously disbursed by it that are otherwise your obligation to pay under the applicable rules. If you prevail in the arbitration and are awarded an amount that is less than the last written settlement amount offered by the Company before the arbitrator was appointed, the Company will pay you the amount it offered in settlement.  The arbitrator may make rulings and resolve disputes as to the payment and reimbursement of fees or expenses at any time during the proceeding and upon request from either party made within 14 days of the arbitrator’s ruling on the merits.
9.6 Opt-Out.
You have the right to opt-out and not be bound by the arbitration provisions set forth in these Terms by sending written notice of your decision to opt-out to support@perplexity.ai or to the U.S. mailing address listed in the “How to Contact Us” section of these Terms. The notice must be sent to the Company within 30 days of your first registering to use the Services or agreeing to these Terms; otherwise you shall be bound to arbitrate disputes on a non-class basis in accordance with these Terms. If you opt out of only the arbitration provisions, and not also the Class Action waiver, the Class Action waiver still applies.  You may not opt out of only the Class Action waiver and not also the arbitration provisions.  If you opt-out of these arbitration provisions, the Company also will not be bound by them.
9.7 WAIVER OF RIGHT TO BRING CLASS ACTION AND REPRESENTATIVE CLAIMS.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, YOU AND THE COMPANY EACH AGREE THAT ANY PROCEEDING TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE, CLAIM, OR CONTROVERSY WILL BE BROUGHT AND CONDUCTED ONLY IN THE RESPECTIVE PARTY’S INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY AND NOT AS PART OF ANY CLASS (OR PURPORTED CLASS), CONSOLIDATED, MULTIPLE-PLAINTIFF, OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION OR PROCEEDING (“CLASS ACTION”).  YOU AND THE COMPANY AGREE TO WAIVE THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY CLASS ACTION.  YOU AND THE COMPANY EXPRESSLY WAIVE ANY ABILITY TO MAINTAIN A CLASS ACTION IN ANY FORUM.  IF THE DISPUTE IS SUBJECT TO ARBITRATION, THE ARBITRATOR WILL NOT HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO COMBINE OR AGGREGATE CLAIMS, CONDUCT A CLASS ACTION, OR MAKE AN AWARD TO ANY PERSON OR ENTITY NOT A PARTY TO THE ARBITRATION.  FURTHER, YOU AND THE COMPANY AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATOR MAY NOT CONSOLIDATE PROCEEDINGS FOR MORE THAN ONE PERSON’S CLAIMS, AND IT MAY NOT OTHERWISE PRESIDE OVER ANY FORM OF A CLASS ACTION. FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBT, HOWEVER, YOU CAN SEEK PUBLIC INJUNCTIVE RELIEF TO THE EXTENT AUTHORIZED BY LAW AND CONSISTENT WITH THE EXCEPTIONS CLAUSE ABOVE. IF THIS CLASS ACTION WAIVER IS LIMITED, VOIDED, OR FOUND UNENFORCEABLE, THEN, UNLESS THE PARTIES MUTUALLY AGREE OTHERWISE, THE PARTIES’ AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE SHALL BE NULL AND VOID WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PROCEEDING SO LONG AS THE PROCEEDING IS PERMITTED TO PROCEED AS A CLASS ACTION.  IF A COURT DECIDES THAT THE LIMITATIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH ARE DEEMED INVALID OR UNENFORCEABLE, ANY PUTATIVE CLASS, PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, OR CONSOLIDATED OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION MUST BE BROUGHT IN A COURT OF PROPER JURISDICTION AND NOT IN ARBITRATION.
SHOPPING WITH PERPLEXITY PRO
Shop With Pro.
If you are a subscriber to Perplexity Pro, you may have the ability to shop certain products offered by third-party merchants (“
Merchants
” and such products, “
Products
”), and the Perplexity Engine [and Perplexity Pages (as defined below)] may facilitate the purchase of such Products from Merchants through the ProShop checkout experience (“
ProShop
”).  We reserve the right, with or without prior notice and in our sole and complete discretion, to refuse to allow any user to purchase any Products through ProShop.  You acknowledge and agree that:
All purchases of any products using ProShop are from the Merchant directly and not the Company; Additional terms and conditions from Merchants will apply to any purchases you make using ProShop, and you are responsible for reviewing and complying with such additional terms and conditions; Additional terms and conditions from Merchants will apply to any purchases you make using ProShop, and you are responsible for reviewing and complying with such additional terms and conditions;
Additional terms and conditions from Merchants will apply to any purchases you make using ProShop, and you are responsible for reviewing and complying with such additional terms and conditions; Company may send you text messages in connection with your order, and you consent to receiving such text messages in accordance with Section 10.1 above, [provided that, if you do not provide or opt-out of such consent, you will be unable to make any purchases using ProShop]; and Company may send you text messages in connection with your order, and you consent to receiving such text messages in accordance with Section 10.1 above, [provided that, if you do not provide or opt-out of such consent, you will be unable to make any purchases using ProShop]
Company may send you text messages in connection with your order, and you consent to receiving such text messages in accordance with Section 10.1 above, [provided that, if you do not provide or opt-out of such consent, you will be unable to make any purchases using ProShop]; and
Company is not party to any transactions entered into using ProShop and will have no responsibility or liability to you for any products you purchase from Merchants, including any product liability claims or for any additional or improper charges, delivery issues, pricing errors or product descriptions.
Linked Payment Method.
To use ProShop, you must provide a payment method, which may be a U.S. credit or debit card, PayPal account or other payment method approved by us (“
Payment Method
”).  You acknowledge and agree the Payment Method is accurate, current and complete. You represent and warrant that you have the legal right to use the Payment Method you provide to us or our payment processor, including, without limitation, any credit card you provide when completing a transaction.
Payment.
When you complete a transaction through ProShop or make a purchase of Products using the Services, we will provide necessary purchase funds for the purchase on your behalf pursuant to these Terms. We are not a lender and do not provide loans. We do not charge interest or fees on amounts advanced on your behalf pursuant to the purchases of Products through ProShop.At the time of each transaction through ProShop, you contemporaneously authorize us to initiate one or more debits to your Payment Method to deduct total funds equaling the transaction amount, which includes the purchase price of the Products, plus all shipping and handling charges and all applicable taxes in connection with your purchase. These debits are for the purpose of reimbursing Company for purchases made on your behalf via ProShop. Please contact us if you want to cancel this authorization. You also authorize us to retry any failed authorizations. We may use data provided to us by our partners to determine when to schedule such retries. Unless otherwise noted, all currency references are in U.S. Dollars.
Cancellations, Returns & Refunds.
If you have an issue with your order, would like to cancel your order or would like to initiate a return or request a refund, please contact the Merchant directly first. The Merchant will follow their own policy on returns, refunds, cancellations, missing orders and damaged or defective items. If the Merchant confirms you are eligible for a refund, any refunds will be made to the payment method you originally used to make the purchase.
Release.
To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, you release Company and its officers, directors, employees, agents, and successors from any claims, demands, and damages of every kind or nature, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, disclosed or undisclosed, arising out of or in any way related to any dispute you have with a Merchant in connection purchases made using ProShop. If you are a California resident, you shall and hereby do waive California Civil Code Section 1542, which says: “A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS THAT THE CREDITOR OR RELEASING PARTY DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE AND THAT, IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER, WOULD HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR OR RELEASED PARTY.”  We do not endorse, warrant or guarantee any such products or services from Merchants. If you have a dispute with any Merchant, as applicable, we have no obligation or responsibility to become involved, though we may do so at our election in our sole discretion.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
11.1 SMS Messaging and Phone Calls.
Certain portions of the Services may allow us to contact you via telephone or text messages. You agree that the Company may contact you via telephone or text messages (including by an automatic telephone dialing system) at any of the phone numbers provided by you or on your behalf in connection with your use of the Services, including for marketing purposes. You understand that you are not required to provide this consent as a condition of purchasing any Offerings or Services. You also understand that you may opt out of receiving text messages from us at any time. If you do not choose to opt out, we may contact you as outlined in our Privacy Policy.
11.2 Updating These Terms.
We may modify these Terms from time to time in which case we will update the “Last Revised” date at the top of these Terms.  If we make changes that are material, we will use reasonable efforts to attempt to notify you, such as by e-mail and/or by placing a prominent notice on the first page of the Website. However, it is your sole responsibility to review these Terms from time to time to view any such changes.  The updated Terms will be effective as of the time of posting, or such later date as may be specified in the updated Terms. Your continued access or use of the Services after the modifications have become effective will be deemed your acceptance of the modified Terms. No amendment shall apply to a dispute for which an arbitration has been initiated prior to the change in Terms.
11.3 Termination of License and Your Account.
If you breach any of the provisions of these Terms, all licenses granted by the Company will terminate automatically. Additionally, the Company may suspend, disable, or delete your Account and/or the Services (or any part of the foregoing) with or without notice, for any or no reason. If the Company deletes your Account for any suspected breach of these Terms by you, you are prohibited from re-registering for the Services under a different name. In the event of Account deletion for any reason, the Company may, but is not obligated to, delete any of Your Content. the Company shall not be responsible for the failure to delete or deletion of Your Content. All sections which by their nature should survive the termination of these Terms shall continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding any termination of these Terms by the Company or you. Termination will not limit any of the Company’s other rights or remedies at law or in equity.
11.4 Injunctive Relief.
You agree that a breach of these Terms will cause irreparable injury to the Company for which monetary damages would not be an adequate remedy and the Company shall be entitled to equitable relief in addition to any remedies it may have hereunder or at law without a bond, other security or proof of damages.
11.5 California Residents.
If you are a California resident, in accordance with Cal. Civ. Code § 1789.3, you may report complaints to the Complaint Assistance Unit of the Division of Consumer Services of the California Department of Consumer Affairs by contacting them in writing at 1625 North Market Blvd., Suite N 112 Sacramento, CA 95834, or by telephone at (800) 952-5210.
11.6 Export Laws.
You agree that you will not export or re-export, directly or indirectly, the Services and/or other information or materials provided by the Company hereunder, to any country for which the United States or any other relevant jurisdiction requires any export license or other governmental approval at the time of export without first obtaining such license or approval. In particular, but without limitation, the Services may not be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S. embargoed countries or any country that has been designated by the U.S. Government as a “terrorist supporting” country, or (b) to anyone listed on any U.S. Government list of prohibited or restricted parties, including the U.S. Treasury Department’s list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Person’s List or Entity List. By using the Services, you represent and warrant that you are not located in any such country or on any such list. You are responsible for and hereby agree to comply at your sole expense with all applicable United States export laws and regulations.
11.7 Miscellaneous.
If any provision of these Terms shall be unlawful, void or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision shall be deemed severable from these Terms and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions. These Terms and the licenses granted hereunder may be assigned by the Company but may not be assigned by you without the prior express written consent of the Company. No waiver by either party of any breach or default hereunder shall be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or subsequent breach or default. The section headings used herein are for reference only and shall not be read to have any legal effect. The Services are operated by us in the United States. Those who choose to access the Services from locations outside the United States do so at their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with applicable local laws. These Terms are governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to conflict of laws rules, and the proper venue for any disputes arising out of or relating to any of the same will be the arbitration venue set forth in Section 9, or if arbitration does not apply, then the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California. You and the Company agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods will not apply to the interpretation or construction of these Terms.
11.8 How to Contact Us.
You may contact us regarding the Services or these Terms at: 115 Sansome St. Suite 900, San Francisco, CA 94104, by phone at +1 (510) 270-0840 or by e-mail at
support@perplexity.ai
.

--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/privacy-policy ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Ask anything
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Privacy Notice
Last updated: July 2, 2026
This Privacy Notice (“Notice”) applies to personal data Perplexity AI, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, “Perplexity,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) collects through our websites, the Comet browser, mobile applications (the “app”), and other services (the “services”). This notice does not apply to data collected through Perplexity’s
Enterprise
and
API
offerings where we act as a service provider or processor with regard to the data collected through those systems.
Data We Collect
We collect data about you in different ways. For example, we collect data:
Directly from you. This includes when you make an account, submit queries, upload documents, enroll in one of our paid plans, or contact us by any means.
Automatically. This includes through cookies or pixels, your device, server logs, and other tools used by our services.
From other sources. These can include our affiliates, vendors, social media, publicly available sources, and other companies.
The following are a few examples of our collection and use of data:
Context
Examples of Personal data
Primary Purpose and Legal Basis
Account Registration
When you make an account, we collect your name, contact information, username and password, and, in some instances, device and network identifiers. We also collect data on the actions that you perform while logged in.
If you invite another person to create an account or use our services, we will process their contact information solely to facilitate that invitation.
We have a legitimate interest in providing account related functionalities to users. Accounts can offer opportunities to, among other things, collaborate among users, save preferences, and save query history.
Business Contact Information
We collect the name and contact information of the employees of our enterprise clients and of our vendors.
We have a legitimate interest in contacting our enterprise clients and our vendors and communicating with them about business activities such as projects, services, and billing.
Comet - Saved Information
If you save settings, passwords, payment data, account information, or other content to your Comet browser, we process that data.
We have a legitimate interest in providing a convenient service. In most instances, your information is saved based on your consent.
Comet - Use and Browsing History
Depending on your settings, we record your browsing history and track your use and engagement when you use Comet with your synced Perplexity account.
If you use incognito mode, note that we, and third parties like the websites that you visit, may still be able to track you. Other people that use your device will not see your history from previous sessions, however. We will also attempt to prevent websites from accessing third-party cookies, although they may still be able to access first-party cookies.
For further information about privacy settings and controls in Comet, see
here
.
We have a legitimate interest in learning about your preferences to tailor our services to you. Additionally, we provide this history for your convenience.
Comet – Local Data
In addition to the data that we collect, Comet is designed to collect and store certain information locally on your system. This includes browsing data, permissions you have granted to websites, and records of your downloads. While we do not access this data, this type of interaction data may be used to provide and improve Comet and recommend relevant content.
We have a legitimate interest in creating a seamless user experience. Storing local data allows for a continuous experience between sessions even if the browser has been closed.
Email Assistant
If you choose to link Email Assistant to your email provider, the service will analyze the contents of messages you send and receive in order to advise on responses.
We access this data to perform our contract with you. We do not use the content of emails to create, train, improve, or fine-tune AI models.
If you sync your Google account with the services, we only use and disclose data from your Google account in accordance with the Google API Services User Data Policy, including the Limited Use requirements.
Demographics
We may collect demographic data such as your age, race, or religion if you choose to upload it. This may also be collected through certain services such as our health offerings.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding our users and potential customers better. In some instances, we may process this data as part of our contract with you.
Email Interactions
If you receive email from us, we use tools to capture when you open our message, click on links or banners in it, or make purchases after receiving an email.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding how you engage with our messages.
Feedback/Support
If you contact us we collect your name and email as well as the content that you send.
We have a legitimate interest in receiving and acting upon feedback, and to provide support.
Perplexity Health
If you choose to participate in one of our health-related services or otherwise submit health-related data to our services, we will process the health data you make available. This may include information provided directly by you as User Content, or it may include data you authorize to be shared with us by other entities or apps.
We process your health data based on your consent and, in some instances, to perform our contract with you.
Job Applicants
If you apply for a job we collect information needed to process your application. This may include your social security number, references, and any information on your resume or provided by the third party you use to submit your application. Providing this information is required for employment.
In some contexts, we are required by law to collect data about applicants. We also have a legitimate interest in using data to evaluate your application or consider you for other positions. If you become an employee, we will provide you with a separate privacy notice that explains how we collect, use, and share data about our employees.
Location
Our services may collect your general location from the IP address from which you connect. This lets us determine your general location for location-specific queries.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding our users and providing tailored services.
Mailing List
When you sign up for our mailing lists, we collect your contact information.
We have a legitimate interest in sharing information about our products and services. Where required by law we will ask for your consent before communicating with you.
Device Data
We collect information your device broadcasts when you use our services. This could include, for example, operating system, hardware specifications, memory data, your IP address, and information about crashes and errors.
We have a legitimate interest in identifying unique users and understanding how users engage with us on their mobile device.
Partner Promotion
We collect data that you provide as part of co-branded promotions with other companies.
We have a legitimate interest in fulfilling our promotions. Note that many co-branded promotions involve the collection of information by us, and the other company identified in the promotion. Where data is jointly collected, your data may be sent to both companies. This privacy notice applies to our use of your data. You should review the privacy notice of the other company identified in the promotion to understand their use of your data.
Purchases
We collect your name, billing, shipping, and email addresses, phone number, and credit or debit card information when you place an order, along with information about what you have purchased. Payment information may be processed through a third party acting as our payment processor.
We use your information to perform our contract to provide products or services or to facilitate the purchase of products or services, this could include sharing information with a shipping company.
Surveys
We collect data you share through surveys. If a third-party offers a survey, the third party’s privacy notice also applies to the collection, use, and disclosure of your data.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding your opinions.
Targeted Advertising Technology
We may share data with third parties to measure the performance of our advertising, including via server-to-server connections and web attribution and measurement technologies (e.g., a cookie or a pixel). The third party may also collect data over time and across websites operated by other companies. Among other things, third parties may use this data to serve ads tailored to your interests, which may include ads about our products or services.
Where required by law, we base the use of third-party tracking technologies upon consent. You can also find more information about your options with regard to this technology in the Your Choices section below.
Use of our App
We collect your username and password, as well as device information, and other data related to your engagement with our services when you use our app.
In some instances, we use your information to perform our contract to provide app related services. We have a legitimate interest in understanding how you use our app. Where required by law, or by a mobile platform, we base the use of third-party tracking technologies upon consent.  Users should go to the settings menu in their mobile device for more information about changing app preferences.
Use of Our Web Services
We use technology (e.g., a cookie or a pixel) to learn how you engage with our websites. This may include which links you click or what you type as a prompt, or usage data such as the timing of your use or reports of crashes. We may also track your IP address, the website that referred you to us, and data about your device.
We have a legitimate interest in making our websites operate. We also use the data to understand how you interact with our services, gather analytics, improve our websites, and learn your preferences. We may also use this data to help detect and prevent fraud. Where required by law, we base the use of technologies upon consent.
User Content – Input and Output
We process content you submit while using our services, including prompts, queries, uploads, and any other data you choose to provide.
We also process data about the output our services generate, and what you create such as collections, pages, or Spaces.
To the extent any of this content includes personal data, we will process it.
If you engage in forums, blogs, or other similar features offered by us, we may maintain records about the content you provide. We may further process metadata associated with such content.
We have a legitimate interest in processing your content to provide you with our services. We also use this data to understand your preferences, create convenient services across sessions, and otherwise allow you to tailor your experience to your interests and needs. We process data related to your content on the basis of your consent, and in some instances, in order to perform our contract with you.
Voice Data
If you enable voice activation or choose to use the speech-to-query feature in one of our services, we may process data about your speech.
We process voice data based on your consent. We also have a legitimate interest in offering convenient services for our users.
If you are in a consent-based jurisdiction, our lawful basis for processing your data is generally consent.
How We Use Data
We also use data to:
Identify you when you visit our sites.
Complete transactions.
Improve or create services and products, including our AI models.
Streamline checkouts.
Conduct analytics.
Connect with you (e.g., addressing your requests, inquiries, issues, or feedback).
Send service and other non-marketing communications.
Market our products or services.
Market the products or services of our business partners.
Find and prevent malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal activity.
Find and prevent security incidents.
Enforce our policies and agreements.
Debug, find, and fix errors that impair our website and services.
Enhance safety, security, and performance of the services.
Troubleshoot, test, perform system maintenance, report, and develop services.
Conduct internal research.
Comply with legal or regulatory obligations.
Establish or exercise our rights.
Defend against legal claims.
Manage our relationships.
For other reasons with your consent.
The sections above describe our main purposes in collecting your data, but often we have multiple purposes. For instance, if you make an online purchase, we may collect your information to perform our contract with you. We also have a legitimate interest in maintaining that data so that we can easily address questions about an order or improve our handling of your queries in the future. As a result, our collection and processing of your data is based in different contexts on your consent, our need to perform a contract, our legal obligations, and/or our legitimate interest in conducting our business.
To the extent we store and use deidentified personal data, we will not try to reidentify the information, except to test our deidentification methods. If we share deidentified data we will obligate the recipient not to try to reidentify the data.
How We Share Data
In addition to the specific situations discussed elsewhere in this Notice we may share personal data in the following situations:
Company Group, Affiliates, and Acquisitions. We may share data among our Company Group, which includes our affiliates (e.g., parent company, sister companies, subsidiaries, joint ventures, or other companies under common control). If a company acquires or enters negotiations to acquire our company, business, or assets, we may share data with that company.
Other Disclosures without Your Consent. We may share data to cooperate with law enforcement, participate in a legal process, or for legal compliance. We may share your data to establish or exercise our rights, to defend against legal claims, to investigate, prevent, or act on possible illegal activities, threats to safety of person or property, or a violation of our policies.
Public. Some of our websites may allow for comments or reviews in a public forum. If you post on these pages, what you share may be publicly available. If you use our services to post on third-party sites not managed but us, those posts may be publicly available. Such content will be handled according to the third-party site’s privacy notice.
Service Providers. We share your data with service providers. Service providers help us to run our services, conduct surveys, provide technical support, process payments, fulfill orders, and more.
Business Partners. If you receive access to our services through a third party, including via the use of a promotion code or other method provided by such third party, we may share your personal data with that third party.
Professional Services. We may share personal data with our professional service providers, such as auditors or lawyers.
Other Disclosures with Your Consent. We may share your data with third parties when you consent or direct us to, such as when you engage with third parties through our services.
Some places require us to disclose whether the following categories of personal data are collected, shared with third parties for a “business purpose,” “sold,” or transferred for “valuable consideration.” The table below indicates the categories of personal data we collect and transfer in a variety of contexts. We do not “sell” your personal data for money.
Category of Personal Information
Category of Recipients
Disclosures for a Business Purpose
Sharing for Targeted Advertising
Identifiers – this may include things like name, alias, postal address, unique personal identifier, online identifier, email address, or account name.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
Advertising Partners.
Financial Information – this may include bank account number, credit card number, debit card number, and other financial information.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Health Related Information – this may include mental or physical condition.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Commercial information – this may include information about products or services purchased, obtained, or considered, or other purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Advisors.
Advertising Partners.
Internet or other electronic network activity information – this may include browsing history, search history, and information regarding an individual’s interaction with an internet website, app, or ad.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
Advertising Partners.
Geolocation data – this could include non-precise geolocation information.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
Advertising Partners.
Professional or employment-related information – this includes, for example, information submitted by job applicants.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Non-public education information (as defined in the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Inferences drawn from any of the information listed above
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Additional categories of personal data described in the California Customer Records statute (Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.80(e)) – this may include signature, physical characteristics, or description, insurance policy number.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Sensitive Information Disclosure. We collect the following categories of sensitive personal data (as defined under California law): account log-in and password, biometric identifiers in the context of voice recognition programs, government ID in the context of a job application, additional sensitive information you choose to provide as input or prompt content. Sensitive data you choose to provide could reveal government identifiers, precise geolocation, racial or ethnic origin, health, citizenship or immigration status, religious or philosophical beliefs, or union membership, contents of mail, email, or text messages, genetic data, neural data, or data concerning sex life or sexual orientation. We also may collect health, genetic, biometric, and/or neural data if you enroll in Perplexity Health. We collect this data to process transactions, comply with laws, manage our business, or provide services.
Note that we do not use such data for any purposes that are not identified within Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.121. We do not “sell” or “share” sensitive personal data for cross-context behavioral advertising, although we may transfer it to third parties when you instruct us to do so. When that occurs, third parties will use it for the purposes indicated in their privacy notices.
Consumer Health Data Privacy Notice. If you participate in one of our health-specific services and upload data, connect third-party services, or direct us to collect information from third parties, we may collect your health, genetic, biometric, and/or neural data. If you choose to submit health-related sensitive information as part of a Service Interaction, we will receive such information. For example, if you choose to provide us – through a query, upload, or other use of our services – health-related data, or data concerning sex life or sexual orientation, then we would receive those categories of information. This may include where you provide sensitive information through your use of the service. Your health information may be shared in the following ways, in addition to those described elsewhere in this policy: with service providers that help us provide requested services, Apps/services that you connect to Perplexity health-related services and third party AI models that help us provide requested services. You can exercise rights related to this data by following the instructions in the Your Choices section, below.
Your Choices
Some jurisdictions give you a right to make the following choices:
Access. You may request access to your personal data or confirmation that we have data about you. In certain cases, you may ask to receive access to your data in a portable, machine-readable form.
List of Third-Party Recipients. You may request a list of third parties to whom we have disclosed personal data. Some areas also allow you to obtain a list of the categories of third parties to which we have disclosed personal data. You can find that information in the table above under the “How We Share Data” section.
Change. Most of our services allow you to change your account profile. If a service does not permit you to update or correct data, you can ask us to correct inaccuracies by contacting us at the address below. We may keep historical data in our backup files as permitted by law.
Deletion. You may ask us to delete your personal data. If required by law, we will grant such a request. Note, however, that in many cases we must keep your personal data to comply with legal obligations, resolve disputes, enforce agreements, or for other business purposes.
Opt-out of Website Targeted Advertising. When targeted advertising occurs on our services, you have the choice to opt-out. You can opt out of online targeted advertising (e.g. cookies and pixels) through the cookie consent pop-up that appears when you visit a Perplexity webpage. Because this preference is stored locally, you may need to set it again if you switch browsers or devices, or if you clear your browser's cache. We recognize
Global Privacy Control (GPC) signals
broadcast from web browsers as a valid opt-out request where required by applicable law. Please note that the GPC will apply only to your current browser. If there is a conflict between the GPC signal and a manual choice that you have made on our website regarding targeted advertising, we will honor your manual choice. We do not recognize the “Do Not Track” signal.
Opt-out of App-Based Targeted Advertising. You may opt-out of App-based targeted advertising (e.g., SDKs with advertising partners) by going to the settings menu in your mobile device.
Choices in Comet. You can attempt to prevent websites that you visit from accessing third-party cookies to personalize content and ads by going to Settings/Privacy and Security/Third-party cookies within Comet. You may also use Comet Incognito to limit the ability of others that use the same device to see your activity across sessions. You may opt-out of Browser-based targeted advertising (e.g. cookies and pixels) by adjusting the privacy settings in your browser.
Incognito. In addition to the option to use Comet in Incognito, as described previously, you may choose to use Incognito in our app and through parts of our website. Incognito increases your privacy by not saving your search activity across use sessions. For more information on Incognito, see
here
.
Objection to or Restriction of Certain Processing. In certain circumstances, you may object to the processing of your personal data, or ask that we restrict processing of your personal data. To do so, follow the instructions below.
Promotional Emails. You may provide us with your email address to allow us to send newsletters, surveys, offers, or other promotional content, as well as targeted offers from third parties. You can stop receiving such emails by following the unsubscribe instructions at the bottom of those emails. If you choose not to receive such emails, we may still send you service-related communications.
Revocation Of Consent. Where we process your personal data based upon consent, you may revoke consent. Note, if you revoke consent for processing personal data, we may no longer be able to provide you some types of services.
Not all the rights above are absolute, and they do not apply in all circumstances. We may limit or deny a request because the law permits or requires us to. We will not discriminate against individuals who exercise a privacy right.
Submitting Requests
You may exercise the above rights by contacting us via the contact information below. If you disagree with our denial of a request, you may appeal our decision by contacting us with the subject line “Appeal.”
We will require you to prove your identity when making most types of requests. We may verify your identity by phone or email, or by having you log into your account. Depending on your request, we will ask for information such as your name, email address, account-related information, or the date of your last subscription payment. We may also ask you to send us a signed declaration confirming your identity.
In some circumstances, you may designate an authorized agent to exercise rights on your behalf. To do so, you may designate, in writing or through a power of attorney document, an authorized agent to make requests on your behalf to exercise your rights. Before accepting such a request from an agent, we will require that the agent provide proof you have authorized them to act on your behalf, and we may need you to verify your identity directly with us.
How We Protect and Retain Data
No method of internet transmission or electronic storage is fully secure. While we use reasonable efforts to protect personal data, we cannot guarantee its security. If we are required to inform you about a security incident, we will do so electronically, in writing, or by phone, as the law permits.
Some of our services permit you to create an account. You are responsible for selecting a unique and complex password and keeping it confidential. You are responsible for any access to or use of your account by someone who has obtained your password, whether or not you approved of such access or use. Notify us of unauthorized use of your password or account immediately.
We keep your personal data for only as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes in this Notice unless a longer retention period is required or permitted by law. This includes the purposes of satisfying legal, accounting, or reporting requirements. To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature, and sensitivity of the data. We also weigh the potential risk of harm from unauthorized use or disclosure of the data, the purposes for which we obtained the data and whether we can meet those purposes through other means, as well as applicable legal requirements.
Transmission Of Data To Other Countries
As a multi-national company, we send data between and among our affiliates. As a result, we may process your data in a country with less stringent privacy laws than the laws in the country that you reside. Where possible, we treat personal data using the same privacy principles that guide the law of the country in which we first receive your data. By submitting your personal data to us you agree to the transfer, storage, and processing of your data in a country other than your country of residence including, but not limited to, the United States. For more information on our attempts to apply the privacy principles applicable in one area to data when it goes to another, contact us using the contact information below. You may also request a copy of any Standard Contractual Clauses we use for the transfer of your data outside of the EEA or United Kingdom, which includes the categories of information transferred, by contacting us using the contact information below.
We comply with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce (collectively, the “DPF”) and have certified to the U.S. Department of Commerce that we adhere to the DPF Principles with regard to the processing of personal data received from the European Union and UK (and Gibraltar) in reliance on the DPF.
If there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy policy and the DPF Principles, the Principles shall govern to the extent applicable to the information at issue. The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction over our compliance with the DPF and, in accordance with the DPF, we are responsible for onward transfers to third parties that process personal data subject to the DPF in a way that does not follow the DPF Principles. To learn more about the Data Privacy Framework program, and to view our certification, please visit the
Data Privacy Framework website
.
We commit to resolve DPF Principles-related complaints about our collection and use of personal data. Individuals in the EU and UK with inquiries or complaints regarding our compliance with the DPF should first contact us, at
support@perplexity.ai
. If you have an unresolved complaint concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the DPF that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our U.S.-based third-party dispute resolution provider (free of charge) at
https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/
. Under certain conditions, you may be entitled to invoke binding arbitration to resolve your complaint. In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, we commit to cooperate and comply respectively with the advice of the panel established by the EU data protection authorities (DPAs) and the UK Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) with regard to unresolved complaints concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF.
Third-Party Applications/Websites
We may provide links to websites and other third-party content or services that we do not own or operate. We have no control over the privacy practices of websites or services we do not own. For details about such third parties’ privacy practices, see their privacy notices.
Changes To This Privacy Notice
We may change our Notice and privacy practices. New notices will be published on our website. If changes are material, the Notice that was in place when you submitted personal data to us will generally govern that data unless you consent to the new Notice. Our Notice shows “effective” and “last updated” dates below. The effective date is the date the current version took effect. The last updated date is the date the current version was last substantively changed.
Children
Our websites and online services are not meant for children under 13 years old, and we do not knowingly collect personal data from children under age 16 without parental consent. Children under 13 should not give us their personal data.
Contact Information
If you have questions, comments, or complaints on our privacy practices, or if you need to access this Notice in a different form due to a disability, please contact us. We will try to address your requests and provide you with additional privacy-related information. Email us at:
support@perplexity.ai
For EU inquiries:
Perplexity AI
Leipziger Platz 16
10117 Berlin
Germany
For U K inquiries:
Perplexity AI
10 Devonshire Square
London EC2M 4YP
United Kingdom
TrustKeith Ltd, a company registered at 20-22 Wenlock Road, London, is our DPO. To contact our representative or DPO, please submit a
data request here
.
If you are not satisfied with our response and are in the European Union or United Kingdom, you may have a right to lodge a complaint with your local supervisory authority.

--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/aup ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Ask anything
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Acceptable Use Policy
Last updated: July 8th, 2025
Thank you for choosing to use Perplexity (the “Services”). At Perplexity AI, Inc. (“Perplexity”), we are committed to lawful, safe and responsible artificial intelligence development and use, which this Acceptable Use Policy (this “Policy”) is designed to promote.
Please note that this Policy is incorporated into the terms and conditions or other agreement that you have entered into with Perplexity (or an authorized third-party distributor) that governs your use of the Services.
Respect applicable law
.  You must not access, deploy or use the Services to conduct or facilitate any activity that is unlawful, fraudulent, or that violates the rights of others. For example, you may not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Facilitate cybercrime or other types of crime (e.g., hacking, phishing, identity theft, or creation or distribution of malware); or plan, promote, advocate, or assist in any illegal or violent actions (e.g., terrorism, threats, or the planning of violent or criminal acts);
Compromise the privacy of others (e.g., collecting, disclosing or otherwise processing personal data without complying with applicable legal requirements);
Violate any contract or agreement to which you are a party; or
Submit any material to the Services, or use the Services to create, compile or distribute any material, without having all necessary rights, licenses, consents or permissions to do so.
Avoid high-risk activity.
You must not access, deploy or use the Services to conduct or facilitate any activity that poses a significant threat to individuals or society (whether or not it is expressly illegal in your jurisdiction). For example, you may not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Create, compile or distribute disinformation or manipulative content; harassing, hateful or defamatory content; pornographic or exploitative content; unsolicited advertising or promotional materials; or unauthorized collections of personal data;
Create content that you subsequently claim was created solely by humans, or otherwise misrepresent the provenance of information or content; or provide chatbot services without disclosing to end users that they are interacting with AI (unless it is obvious from the context);
Facilitate or engage in real money gambling, payday lending, political campaigning, lobbying, academic dishonesty or self-harm;
Provide services targeted to users under the age of 13; or medical, financial, tax, legal or other services that would typically require specialized credentials or licensing without appropriate professional oversight;
Make automated decisions about individuals that materially impact them (e.g., decisions regarding their employment, healthcare, finances, housing or insurance) or where errors could be dangerous (e.g., decisions related to the management of critical infrastructure or safety components of products); or
Engage in any activity or practice that is prohibited or considered ‘high risk’ under the European Union’s AI Act (
here
) or any other similar regulations governing deployment and/or use of artificial intelligence systems of services.
Avoid technical misuse
.  You must respect Perplexity and the third parties whose AI models help power the Services. This means you must not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Copy, distribute, rent, lease, lend, license, transfer or make derivative works of the Services or any related materials or use any of the foregoing on a service bureau or similar basis;
Decompile, distill, jailbreak, subject to prompt injection or other adversarial attacks, reverse engineer, or disassemble the Services or otherwise attempt to discover the source code, model weights or other algorithmic parameters of the Services (including the third-party AI models used in the Services);
Probe, scan, or test the vulnerability of the Services or related systems;
Remove watermarks, metadata or other indicia intended to identify outputs as artificially generated or manipulated, or circumvent abuse protections or safety filters, whether Perplexity’s or those of a third party;
Create or make available any products or services competitive with, similar to, or that would otherwise be a substitute for the Services (or the third-party AI models used in the Services), except with Perplexity’s express prior written permission; or
Engage in any activity that interferes with, disrupts, damages or accesses in an unauthorized manner the servers, networks or other properties or services of Perplexity or any third party.
Respect our partners
. The Services may use AI models provided by third parties. When using the Services, therefore, you must comply with those parties’ acceptable usage policies.
Exceptions
. Perplexity, in its sole discretion, may grant educational, documentary, scientific, or artistic-based exceptions to this Policy, or where harms are outweighed by substantial benefits to the public.
Changes to This Policy
. We may modify this Policy at any time to reflect changes in our practices, technology, legal requirements, or other factors. Your continued use of the Services following the posting or notice of any changes will mean you accept those changes.
By accessing, deploying or using the Services, you agree to comply with this Policy.  Subject to the terms of your agreement with Perplexity or authorized third-party distributor (as applicable), your failure to comply with this Policy may result in suspension or termination, or both, of the Services.