--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/terms-of-service ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Try Perplexity
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Partner & Promotion Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Terms of Service
Last updated: June 4th, 2024
Welcome to the Terms of Service (these “Terms”) for Perplexity AI, Inc.’s (“Company”, “we” or “us”) websites,
www.perplexity.ai
and
https://labs.perplexity.ai
(the “Websites”), artificial-intelligence powered search engine (the “Perplexity Engine”), related mobile application (the “App”), and any content, tools, features and functionality offered on or through our Website, the Perplexity Engine and the App (collectively, the “Services”). These Terms do not govern use of the Company’s APIs (which are governed by the Perplexity API Terms of Service located here:
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/perplexity-api-terms-of-service
) or Perplexity Pro for Enterprise (which is governed by the Perplexity Pro for Enterprise Terms located here: (
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/enterprise-terms-of-service
).
These Terms govern your access to and use of the Services. Please read these Terms carefully, as they include important information about your legal rights. By accessing and/or using the Services, you are agreeing to these Terms. If you do not understand or agree to these Terms, please do not use the Services.
For purposes of these Terms, “you” and “your” means you as the user of the Services. If you use the Services on behalf of a company or other entity then “you” includes you and that entity, and you represent and warrant that (a) you are an authorized representative of the entity with the authority to bind the entity to these Terms, and (b) you agree to these Terms on the entity’s behalf.
SECTION 9 CONTAINS AN ARBITRATION CLAUSE AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER. BY AGREEING TO THESE TERMS, YOU AGREE (A) TO RESOLVE ALL DISPUTES (WITH LIMITED EXCEPTION) RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S SERVICES AND/OR PRODUCTS THROUGH BINDING INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION, WHICH MEANS THAT YOU WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO HAVE THOSE DISPUTES DECIDED BY A JUDGE OR JURY, AND (B) TO WAIVE YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN CLASS ACTIONS, CLASS ARBITRATIONS, OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTIONS, AS SET FORTH BELOW. YOU HAVE THE RIGHT TO OPT-OUT OF THE ARBITRATION CLAUSE AND THE CLASS ACTION WAIVER AS EXPLAINED IN SECTION 9.
THE SERVICES
1.1  Input and Output.
As a part of the Services, you can input, upload and submit information and other materials (“Input”) into the Perplexity Engine, and the Perplexity Engine will use artificial intelligence tools and functionalities to generate responses based on your Input (“Output”). Your use of the Perplexity Engine, including any Outputs, may also be subject to license and use restrictions set forth in a third-party LLM license, if applicable. Any Input will be deemed “Your Content” under these Terms.
You may not direct the Services to generate any Output in violation of any applicable intellectual property right, contractual restriction or other law. By submitting any Input through the Services, you represent that you have obtained all rights, licenses, consents, permissions, power and/or authority necessary to submit and use (and allow us to use) such Input in connection with the Services. You represent and warrant that your submission of Input in connection with your use of the Services, including to generate Output, will not breach any law or any third party’s terms and conditions associated with such Input. You may not (i) publish any Output generated by the Services without clearly citing the Services, or (ii) misrepresent the source of any Output or the fact that it was generated by artificial intelligence.
1.2 Eligibility
. You must be 13 years of age or older to use the Services. Minors under the age of majority in their jurisdiction but that are at least 13 years of age are only permitted to use the Services if the minor’s parent or guardian accepts these Terms on the minor’s behalf prior to use of the Services. Children under the age of 13 are not permitted to use the Services. By using the Services, you represent and warrant that you meet these requirements.
USER ACCOUNTS, SUBSCRIPTIONS AND FREE TRIALS
2.1 Creating and Safeguarding your Account.
To use certain of the Services, you need to create an account or link another account, such as your Apple or Google account (“Account”). You agree to provide us with accurate, complete and updated information for your Account. You can access, edit and update your Account through the settings page of your Account profile. You are solely responsible for any activity on your Account and for maintaining the confidentiality and security of your password. We are not liable for any acts or omissions by you in connection with your Account. You must immediately notify us at
support@perplexity.ai
if you know or have any reason to suspect that your Account or password have been stolen, misappropriated or otherwise compromised, or in case of any actual or suspected unauthorized use of your Account. You agree not to create an Account if we have previously removed your Account, or we previously banned you from any of our Services, unless we provide written consent otherwise.
2.2 Paid Services.
Certain of our Services are free; however, if you subscribe to any of our paid Services, you agree to pay us the applicable fees and taxes in U.S. Dollars. Failure to pay these fees and taxes will result in the termination of your access to the paid Services. You agree that (a) if you purchase a recurring subscription to any of the Services, we may store and continue billing your payment method (e.g. credit card) to avoid interruption of such Services, and (b) we may calculate taxes payable by you based on the billing information that you provide us at the time of purchase.  We reserve the right to change our subscription plans or adjust pricing for the paid Services in any manner and at any time as we may determine in our sole and absolute discretion. Except as otherwise provided in these Terms, any price changes or changes to your subscription plan will take effect following reasonable notice to you. All subscriptions are payable in accordance with payment terms in effect at the time the subscription becomes payable. Payment can be made by credit card, debit card, or other means that we may make available. Subscriptions will not be processed until payment has been received in full, and any holds on your account by any other payment processor are solely your responsibility.
2.3 Subscription Renewals and Cancellations. You agree that if you purchase a subscription, your subscription will automatically renew at the subscription period frequency referenced on your subscription page (or if not designated, then monthly) and at the then-current rates, and your payment method will automatically be charged at the start of each new subscription period for the fees and taxes applicable to that period.  To avoid future subscription charges, you must cancel your subscription before the subscription period renewal date through the settings page of your Account profile or by emailing
support@perplexity.ai
.
2.4 No Subscription Refunds.
Except as expressly set forth in these Terms, payments for any subscriptions to the Services are nonrefundable and there are no credits for partially used periods. Following any cancellation by you, however, you will continue to have access to the paid Services through the end of the subscription period for which payment has already been made.
ORDERS FOR PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES
3.1 Payment.
The Services may permit you to purchase certain other products or services, such as merchandise (“Offerings”).  You acknowledge and agree that all information you provide with regards to a purchase of Offerings, including, without limitation, credit card, PayPal, or other payment information, is accurate, current and complete. You represent and warrant that you have the legal right to use the payment method you provide to us or our payment processor, including, without limitation, any credit card you provide when completing a transaction. We reserve the right, with or without prior notice and in our sole and complete discretion, to (a) discontinue, modify, or limit the available quantity of, any Offerings, and (b) refuse to allow any user to purchase any Offering or deliver such Offerings to a user or a user designated address. When you purchase Offerings, you (i) agree to pay the price for such Offerings as set forth in the applicable Service, and all shipping and handling charges and all applicable taxes in connection with your purchase (the “Full Purchase Amount”), and (ii) authorize us to charge your credit card or other payment method for the Full Purchase Amount. Unless otherwise noted, all currency references are in U.S. Dollars. All fees and charges are payable in accordance with payment terms in effect at the time the fee or the charge becomes payable. Payment can be made by credit card, debit card, or through PayPal or other means that we may make available. Orders will not be processed until payment has been received in full, and any holds on your account by PayPal or any other payment processor are solely your responsibility.
3.2 Promotional Codes.
We may offer certain promotional codes, referral codes, discount codes, coupon codes or similar offers (“Promotional Codes”) that may be redeemed for discounts on benefits related to the Services or future Offerings, subject to any additional terms that the Company establishes. You agree that Promotional Codes: (a) must be used in a lawful manner; (b) must be used for the intended audience and purpose; (c) may not be duplicated, sold or transferred in any manner, or made available by you to the general public (whether posted to a public forum, coupon collecting service, or otherwise), unless expressly permitted by the Company; (d) may be disabled or have additional conditions applied to them by the Company at any time for any reason without liability to the Company; (e) may only be used pursuant to the specific terms that the Company establishes for such Promotional Code; (f) are not valid for cash or other credits or points; and (g) may expire prior to your use.
3.3 Changes and Pricing.
The Company may, at any time, revise or change the pricing, availability, specifications, content, descriptions or features of any Offerings. While we attempt to be as accurate as we can in our descriptions for the Offerings, we do not warrant that Offering descriptions are accurate, complete, reliable, current, or error-free. The inclusion of any Offerings for purchase through the Services at a particular time does not imply or warrant that the Offerings will be available at any other time. We reserve the right to change prices for Offerings displayed on the Services at any time, and to correct pricing errors that may inadvertently occur (and to cancel any orders in our sole discretion that were purchased with pricing errors). All such changes shall be effective immediately upon posting of such new Offering prices to the Services and/or upon making the customer aware of the pricing error.
3.4 Order Acceptance; Shipment.
Once we receive your order for an Offering, we will provide you with an order confirmation. Your receipt of an order confirmation, however, does not signify our acceptance of your order, nor does it constitute confirmation of our offer to sell; we are simply confirming that we received your order. We reserve the right at any time after receiving your order to accept or decline your order for any reason and in our sole discretion. If we cancel an order after you have already been billed, then we will refund the billed amount. Title and risk of loss for any purchases of physical products pass to you upon our delivery to our carrier. We reserve the right to ship partial orders (at no additional cost to you), and the portion of any order that is partially shipped may be charged at the time of shipment. All orders are shipped using one of our third-party couriers. Online tracking may be available at our courier’s website (for example, FedEx), though we make no warranties regarding its availability because it is not under our control. While deliveries may be scheduled for a specified arrival, we cannot guarantee delivery by any specific date or time.
3.5 Manufacturer’s Warranty and Disclaimers.
Certain of the Offerings made available on the Services are manufactured by third parties (“Third-Party Offerings”).  The availability of Third-Party Offerings through the Services does not indicate an affiliation with or endorsement by us of any Third-Party Offering or its manufacturer. Accordingly, we do not provide any warranties with respect to the Third-Party Offerings.
3.6 No Delivery to Children.
Users are not allowed to give the Company the personal information of any persons under the age of 13 for delivery or shipping purposes or any other reason.
LOCATION OF OUR PRIVACY POLICY
4.1 Privacy Policy.
Our Privacy Policy describes how we handle the information you provide to us when you use the Services. For an explanation of our privacy practices, please visit our Privacy Policy located at
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/privacy-policy
.
RIGHTS WE GRANT YOU
5. 1 Right to Use Services.
We hereby permit you to use the Services for your personal, non-commercial use only, provided that you comply with these Terms in connection with all such use.  If any software, content or other materials owned or controlled by us are distributed to you as part of your use of the Services, we hereby grant you, a personal, non-assignable, non-sublicensable, non-transferrable, and non-exclusive right and license to access and display such software, content and materials provided to you as part of the Services (and right to download a single copy of the App onto your applicable equipment or device), in each case for the sole purpose of enabling you to use the Services as permitted by these Terms. Your access and use of the Services may be interrupted from time to time for any of several reasons, including, without limitation, the malfunction of equipment, periodic updating, maintenance or repair of the Service or other actions that Company, in its sole discretion, may elect to take.
5.2 Restrictions On Your Use of the Services.
You may not do any of the following in connection with your use of the Services, unless applicable laws or regulations prohibit these restrictions or you have our written permission to do so:
download, modify, copy, distribute, transmit, display, perform, reproduce, duplicate, publish, license, create derivative works from, or offer for sale any information contained on, or obtained from or through, the Services, except for temporary files that are automatically cached by your web browser for display purposes, or as otherwise expressly permitted in these Terms;
duplicate, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or decode the Services (including any underlying idea or algorithm), or attempt to do any of the same;
use, reproduce or remove any copyright, trademark, service mark, trade name, slogan, logo, image, or other proprietary notation displayed on or through the Services;
use automation software (bots), hacks, modifications (mods) or any other unauthorized third-party software designed to modify the Services;
exploit the Services for any commercial purpose, including without limitation communicating or facilitating any commercial advertisement or solicitation;
access or use the Services in any manner that could disable, overburden, damage, disrupt or impair the Services or interfere with any other party’s access to or use of the Services or use any device, software or routine that causes the same;
attempt to gain unauthorized access to, interfere with, damage or disrupt the Services, accounts registered to other users, or the computer systems or networks connected to the Services;
circumvent, remove, alter, deactivate, degrade or thwart any technological measure or content protections of the Services, third-party systems or third-party content;
use any robot, spider, crawlers, scraper, or other automatic device, process, software or queries that intercepts, “mines,” scrapes, extracts, or otherwise accesses the Services to monitor, extract, copy or collect information or data from or through the Services, or engage in any manual process to do the same;
introduce any viruses, trojan horses, worms, logic bombs or other materials that are malicious or technologically harmful into our systems;
submit, transmit, display, perform, post or store any content that is unlawful, defamatory, obscene, excessively violent, pornographic, invasive of privacy or publicity rights, harassing, abusive, hateful, or cruel, or otherwise use the Services in a manner that is obscene, excessively violent, harassing, hateful, cruel, abusive, pornographic, inciting, organizing, promoting or facilitating violence or criminal activities;
violate any applicable law or regulation in connection with your access to or use of the Services;  or
access or use the Services in any way not expressly permitted by these Terms.
5.3 Use of the App.
You are responsible for providing the mobile device, wireless service plan, software, Internet connections and/or other equipment or services that you need to download, install and use the App.  We do not guarantee that the App can be accessed and used on any particular device or with any particular service plan.  We do not guarantee that the App or will be available in, or that orders for Offerings can be placed from, any particular geographic location. As part of the Services and to update you regarding the status of deliveries, you may receive push notifications, local client notifications, text messages, picture messages, alerts, emails or other types of messages directly sent to you in connection with the App (“Push Messages”). You acknowledge that, when you use the App, your wireless service provider may charge you fees for data, text messaging and/or other wireless access, including in connection with Push Messages. You have control over the Push Messages settings, and can opt in or out of these Push Messages through the Services or through your mobile device’s operating system (with the possible exception of infrequent, important service announcements and administrative messages). Please check with your wireless service provider to determine what fees apply to your access to and use of the App, including your receipt of Push Messages from the Company. You are solely responsible for any fee, cost or expense that you incur to download, install and/or use the App on your mobile device, including for your receipt of Push Messages from the Company.
5.4 Mobile Software from the Apple App Store.
The following terms and conditions apply to you only if you are using the App from the Apple App Store. To the extent the other terms and conditions of these Terms are less restrictive than, or otherwise conflict with, the terms and conditions of this paragraph, the more restrictive or conflicting terms and conditions in this paragraph apply, but solely with respect to your use of the App from the Apple App Store. You acknowledge and agree that these Terms are solely between you and the Company, not Apple, and that Apple has no responsibility for the App or content thereof. Your use of the App must comply with the App Store’s applicable terms of use. You acknowledge that Apple has no obligation whatsoever to furnish any maintenance and support services with respect to the App. In the event of any failure of the App to conform to any applicable warranty, you may notify Apple, and Apple will refund the purchase price, if any, for the App to you. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, Apple will have no other warranty obligation whatsoever with respect to the App, and any other claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs or expenses attributable to any failure to conform to any warranty will be solely governed by these Terms. You and the Company acknowledge that Apple is not responsible for addressing any claims of yours or any third party relating to the App or your possession and/or use of the App, including, but not limited to: (a) product liability claims, (b) any claim that the App fails to conform to any applicable legal or regulatory requirement, and (c) claims arising under consumer protection or similar legislation. You and the Company acknowledge that, in the event of any third-party claim that the App or your possession and use of that App infringes that third party’s intellectual property rights, the Company, not Apple, will be solely responsible for the investigation, defense, settlement and discharge of any such intellectual property infringement claim to the extent required by these Terms. You must comply with applicable third-party terms of agreement when using the App. You and the Company acknowledge and agree that Apple, and Apple’s subsidiaries, are third-party beneficiaries of these Terms as they relate to your use of the App, and that, upon your acceptance of these Terms, Apple will have the right (and will be deemed to have accepted the right) to enforce these Terms against you as a third-party beneficiary thereof.
5.5 Beta Offerings.
From time to time, we may, in our sole discretion, include certain test or beta features or products in the Services (“Beta Offerings”) as we may designate from time to time. Your use of any Beta Offering is completely voluntary. The Beta Offerings are provided on an “as is” basis and may contain errors, defects, bugs, or inaccuracies that could cause failures, corruption or loss of data and information from any connected device. You acknowledge and agree that all use of any Beta Offering is at your sole risk.  You agree that once you use a Beta Offering, your content or data may be affected such that you may be unable to revert back to a prior non-beta version of the same or similar feature. Additionally, if such reversion is possible, you may not be able to return or restore data created within the Beta Offering back to the prior non-beta version. If we provide you any Beta Offerings on a closed beta or confidential basis, we will notify you of such as part of your use of the Beta Offerings. For any such confidential Beta Offerings, you agree to not disclose, divulge, display, or otherwise make available any of the Beta Offerings without our prior written consent.
OWNERSHIP AND CONTENT
6.1 Ownership of the Services.
The Services, including their “look and feel” (e.g., text, graphics, images, logos), proprietary content, information and other materials, are protected under copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws. You agree that the Company and/or its licensors own all right, title and interest in and to the Services (including any and all intellectual property rights therein) and you agree not to take any action(s) inconsistent with such ownership interests.  We and our licensors reserve all rights in connection with the Services and its content (other than Your Content), including, without limitation, the exclusive right to create derivative works.
6.2 Ownership of Trademarks.
The Company’s name, trademarks, logo and all related names, logos, product and service names, designs and slogans are trademarks of the Company or its affiliates or licensors.  Other names, logos, product and service names, designs and slogans that appear on the Services are the property of their respective owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or sponsored by us.
6.3 Ownership of Feedback.
We welcome feedback, comments and suggestions for improvements to the Services (“Feedback”). You acknowledge and expressly agree that any contribution of Feedback does not and will not give or grant you any right, title or interest in the Services or in any such Feedback. All Feedback becomes the sole and exclusive property of the Company, and the Company may use and disclose Feedback in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever without further notice or compensation to you and without retention by you of any proprietary or other right or claim. You hereby assign to the Company any and all right, title and interest (including, but not limited to, any patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark, show-how, know-how, moral rights and any and all other intellectual property right) that you may have in and to any and all Feedback.
6.4 Your Content.
In connection with your use of the Services, you may be able to post, upload, or submit content to be made available through the Services (collectively with Input, “Your Content”).  As between the Company and you, the Company does not claim any ownership in Your Content; provided that, the Company or its affiliates and their respective licensors own and will continue to own the Services and any and all other software or technology that was used to generate any Output.
In order to operate the Service, we must obtain from you certain license rights in Your Content so that actions we take in operating the Service are not considered legal violations.  Accordingly, by using the Service and uploading Your Content, you grant us a license to access, use, host, cache, store, reproduce, transmit, display, publish, distribute, and modify Your Content to operate, improve, promote and provide the Services, including to reproduce, transmit, display, publish and distribute Output based on your Input. You agree that these rights and licenses are royalty free, transferable, sub-licensable, worldwide and irrevocable (for so long as Your Content is stored with us), and include a right for us to make Your Content available to, and pass these rights along to, others with whom we have contractual relationships related to the provision of the Services, solely for the purpose of providing such Services, and to otherwise permit access to or disclose Your Content to third parties if we determine such access is necessary to comply with our legal obligations.
To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company reserves the right, and has absolute discretion, to remove, screen, edit, or delete any of Your Content at any time, for any reason, and without notice. By posting or submitting Your Content through the Services, you represent and warrant that you have, or have obtained, all rights, licenses, consents, permissions, power and/or authority necessary to grant the rights granted herein for Your Content. You agree that Your Content will not contain material subject to copyright or other proprietary rights, unless you have the necessary permission or are otherwise legally entitled to post the material and to grant us the license described above.
6.5 Notice of Infringement – DMCA (Copyright) Policy.
If you believe that any text, graphics, photos, audio, videos or other materials or works uploaded, downloaded or appearing on the Services have been copied in a way that constitutes copyright infringement, you may submit a notification to our copyright agent in accordance with 17 USC 512(c) of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (the “DMCA”), by providing the following information in writing:
identification of the copyrighted work that is claimed to be infringed;
identification of the allegedly infringing material that is requested to be removed, including a description of where it is located on the Service;
information for our copyright agent to contact you, such as an address, telephone number and e-mail address;
a statement that you have a good faith belief that the identified, allegedly infringing use is not authorized by the copyright owners, its agent or the law;
a statement that the information above is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that you are the copyright owner or the authorized person to act on behalf of the copyright owner; and
the physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright or of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.
Notices of copyright infringement claims should be sent by mail to: 115 Sansome St. Suite 900, San Francisco, CA 94104 (US); DataRep, The Cube, Monahan Road, Cork, T12 H1XY, Republic of Ireland (EU); or by e-mail to
support@perplexity.ai
.  It is our policy, in appropriate circumstances and at our discretion, to disable or terminate the accounts of users who repeatedly infringe copyrights or intellectual property rights of others.
A user of the Services who has uploaded or posted materials identified as infringing as described above may supply a counter-notification pursuant to sections 512(g)(2) and (3) of the DMCA. When we receive a counter-notification, we may reinstate the posts or material in question, in our sole discretion. To file a counter-notification with us, you must provide a written communication (by fax or regular mail or by email) that sets forth all of the items required by sections 512(g)(2) and (3) of the DMCA. Please note that you will be liable for damages if you materially misrepresent that content or an activity is not infringing the copyrights of others.
THIRD-PARTY SERVICES AND MATERIALS
7.1 Use of Third-Party Materials in the Services.
Certain Services may display, include or make available content, data, information, applications or materials from third parties (“Third-Party Materials”) or provide links to certain third-party websites. Third-Party Materials include the open source software or other third-party software, such as third-party large language models, that are included in the artificial intelligence and machine learning models you access or use through the Services. By using the Services, you acknowledge and agree that the Company is not responsible for examining or evaluating the content, accuracy, completeness, availability, timeliness, validity, copyright compliance, legality, decency, quality or any other aspect of such Third-Party Materials or websites. We do not warrant or endorse and do not assume and will not have any liability or responsibility to you or any other person for any third-party services, Third-Party Materials or third-party websites, or for any other materials, products, or services of third parties. Third-Party Materials and links to other websites are provided solely as a convenience to you.
DISCLAIMERS, LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION
8.1 Disclaimers.
Your access to and use of the Services are at your own risk. You understand and agree that the Services, including any Offerings, are provided to you on an “AS IS” and “AS AVAILABLE” basis. Without limiting the foregoing, to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law, the Company, its parents, affiliates, related companies, officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, partners and licensors (the “Company Entities”) DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT. The Company Entities make no warranty or representation and disclaim all responsibility and liability for: (a) the completeness, accuracy, availability, timeliness, security or reliability of the Services; (b) any harm to your computer system, loss of data, or other harm that results from your access to or use of the Services; (c) the operation or compatibility with any other application or any particular system or device; (d) whether the Services will meet your requirements or be available on an uninterrupted, secure or error-free basis; and (e) the deletion of, or the failure to store or transmit, Your Content and other communications maintained by the Services. No advice or information, whether oral or written, obtained from the Company Entities or through the Services, will create any warranty or representation not expressly made herein.
You acknowledge that the Services may generate Output containing incorrect, biased, or incomplete information. The Company shall have no responsibility or liability to you for the infringement of the rights of any third party in your use of any Output. You should not rely on the Services or any Output for advice of any kind, including medical, legal, investment, financial or other professional advice. Any Output is not a substitute for advice from a qualified professional. You acknowledge that due to the nature of generative artificial intelligence tools, other users of the Services may create and use their own Output that is similar or the same as your Output, such as because the same or similar Input was provided, and you agree that such other users can use their own individually created Output for their own internal business purposes.
THE LAWS OF CERTAIN JURISDICTIONS, INCLUDING THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY, DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF CERTAIN DAMAGES AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 8.2 BELOW. IF THESE LAWS APPLY TO YOU, SOME OR ALL OF THE ABOVE DISCLAIMERS, EXCLUSIONS, OR LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU, AND YOU MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL RIGHTS.
THE COMPANY ENTITIES TAKE NO RESPONSIBILITY AND ASSUME NO LIABILITY FOR ANY CONTENT THAT YOU, ANOTHER USER, OR A THIRD PARTY CREATES, UPLOADS, POSTS, SENDS, RECEIVES, OR STORES ON OR THROUGH OUR SERVICES, INCLUDING ANY OUTPUT.
YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT YOU MAY BE EXPOSED TO CONTENT THAT MIGHT BE OFFENSIVE, ILLEGAL, MISLEADING, OR OTHERWISE INAPPROPRIATE, NONE OF WHICH THE COMPANY ENTITIES WILL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR.
8.2 Limitations of Liability.
TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, YOU AGREE THAT IN NO EVENT WILL THE COMPANY ENTITIES BE LIABLE (A) FOR DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING INDIRECT SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES, LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION OR ANY OTHER DAMAGES OR LOSSES, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO YOUR USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SERVICES), HOWEVER CAUSED AND UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER UNDER THESE TERMS OR OTHERWISE ARISING IN ANY WAY IN CONNECTION WITH THE SERVICES (INCLUDING ANY OUTPUT) OR THESE TERMS AND WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) EVEN IF THE COMPANY ENTITIES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE, OR (B) FOR ANY OTHER CLAIM, DEMAND OR DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM OR ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THESE TERMS, OUTPUT, OR THE DELIVERY, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SERVICES OR OUTPUT.  THE COMPANY ENTITIES’ TOTAL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY DAMAGES FINALLY AWARDED SHALL NOT EXCEED THE GREATER OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00), OR THE AMOUNT YOU PAID THE COMPANY ENTITIES, IF ANY, IN THE PAST SIX (6) MONTHS FOR THE SERVICES (OR OFFERINGS PURCHASED ON THE SERVICES) GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS WILL APPLY EVEN IF THE ABOVE STATED REMEDY FAILS OF ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.
8.3 Indemnification.
By entering into these Terms and accessing or using the Services, you agree that you shall defend, indemnify and hold the Company Entities harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and costs) incurred by the Company Entities arising out of or in connection with: (a) your violation or breach of any term of these Terms or any applicable law or regulation; (b) your violation of any rights of any third party; (c) your misuse of the Services; (d) Your Content; or (e) your negligence or wilful misconduct. If you are obligated to indemnify any Company Entity hereunder, then you agree that Company (or, at its discretion, the applicable Company Entity) will have the right, in its sole discretion, to control any action or proceeding and to determine whether Company wishes to settle, and if so, on what terms, and you agree to fully cooperate with Company in the defense or settlement of such claim.
ARBITRATION AND CLASS ACTION WAIVER
9.1 PLEASE READ THIS SECTION CAREFULLY – IT MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS, INCLUDING YOUR RIGHT TO FILE A LAWSUIT IN COURT AND TO HAVE A JURY HEAR YOUR CLAIMS. IT CONTAINS PROCEDURES FOR MANDATORY BINDING ARBITRATION AND A CLASS ACTION WAIVER.
9.2 Informal Process First.
You and the Company agree that in the event of any dispute, either party will first contact the other party and make a good faith sustained effort to resolve the dispute before resorting to more formal means of resolution, including without limitation, any court action, after first allowing the receiving party 30 days in which to respond.  Both you and the Company agree that this dispute resolution procedure is a condition precedent which must be satisfied before initiating any arbitration against the other party.
9.3 Arbitration Agreement and Class Action Waiver.
After the informal dispute resolution process, any remaining dispute, controversy, or claim (collectively, “Claim”) relating in any way to the Company’s services and/or products, including the Services, and any use or access or lack of access thereto, will be resolved by arbitration, including threshold questions of arbitrability of the Claim. You and the Company agree that any Claim will be settled by final and binding arbitration, using the English language, administered by JAMS under its Comprehensive Arbitration Rules and Procedures (the “JAMS Rules”) then in effect (those rules are deemed to be incorporated by reference into this section, and as of the date of these Terms).  Because your contract with the Company, these Terms, and this Arbitration Agreement concern interstate commerce, the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) governs the arbitrability of all disputes. However, the arbitrator will apply applicable substantive law consistent with the FAA and the applicable statute of limitations or condition precedent to suit. Arbitration will be handled by a sole arbitrator in accordance with the JAMS Rules. Judgment on the arbitration award may be entered in any court that has jurisdiction. Any arbitration under these Terms will take place on an individual basis – class arbitrations and Class Actions (as defined below) are not permitted. You understand that by agreeing to these Terms, you and the Company are each waiving the right to trial by jury or to participate in a Class Action or class arbitration.
9.4 Exceptions.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, you and the Company agree that the following types of disputes will be resolved in a court of proper jurisdiction:
Claims within the jurisdiction of a small claims court consistent with the jurisdictional and dollar limits that may apply, as long as it is brought and maintained as an individual dispute and not as a class, representative, or consolidated action or proceeding;
Claims where the sole form of relief sought is injunctive relief (including public injunctive relief); or
intellectual property Claims.
9.5 Costs of Arbitration.
Payment of all filing, administration, and arbitrator costs and expenses will be governed by the JAMS Rules, except that if you demonstrate that any such costs and expenses owed by you under those rules would be prohibitively more expensive than a court proceeding, the Company will pay the amount of any such costs and expenses that the arbitrator determines are necessary to prevent the arbitration from being prohibitively more expensive than a court proceeding (subject to possible reimbursement as set forth below). Fees and costs may be awarded as provided pursuant to applicable law. If the arbitrator finds that either the substance of your Claim or the relief sought in the demand is frivolous or brought for an improper purpose (as measured by the standards set forth in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11(b)), then the payment of all fees will be governed by the JAMS Rules. In that case, you agree to reimburse the Company for all monies previously disbursed by it that are otherwise your obligation to pay under the applicable rules. If you prevail in the arbitration and are awarded an amount that is less than the last written settlement amount offered by the Company before the arbitrator was appointed, the Company will pay you the amount it offered in settlement.  The arbitrator may make rulings and resolve disputes as to the payment and reimbursement of fees or expenses at any time during the proceeding and upon request from either party made within 14 days of the arbitrator’s ruling on the merits.
9.6 Opt-Out.
You have the right to opt-out and not be bound by the arbitration provisions set forth in these Terms by sending written notice of your decision to opt-out to support@perplexity.ai or to the U.S. mailing address listed in the “How to Contact Us” section of these Terms. The notice must be sent to the Company within 30 days of your first registering to use the Services or agreeing to these Terms; otherwise you shall be bound to arbitrate disputes on a non-class basis in accordance with these Terms. If you opt out of only the arbitration provisions, and not also the Class Action waiver, the Class Action waiver still applies.  You may not opt out of only the Class Action waiver and not also the arbitration provisions.  If you opt-out of these arbitration provisions, the Company also will not be bound by them.
9.7 WAIVER OF RIGHT TO BRING CLASS ACTION AND REPRESENTATIVE CLAIMS.
TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, YOU AND THE COMPANY EACH AGREE THAT ANY PROCEEDING TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE, CLAIM, OR CONTROVERSY WILL BE BROUGHT AND CONDUCTED ONLY IN THE RESPECTIVE PARTY’S INDIVIDUAL CAPACITY AND NOT AS PART OF ANY CLASS (OR PURPORTED CLASS), CONSOLIDATED, MULTIPLE-PLAINTIFF, OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION OR PROCEEDING (“CLASS ACTION”).  YOU AND THE COMPANY AGREE TO WAIVE THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A PLAINTIFF OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY CLASS ACTION.  YOU AND THE COMPANY EXPRESSLY WAIVE ANY ABILITY TO MAINTAIN A CLASS ACTION IN ANY FORUM.  IF THE DISPUTE IS SUBJECT TO ARBITRATION, THE ARBITRATOR WILL NOT HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO COMBINE OR AGGREGATE CLAIMS, CONDUCT A CLASS ACTION, OR MAKE AN AWARD TO ANY PERSON OR ENTITY NOT A PARTY TO THE ARBITRATION.  FURTHER, YOU AND THE COMPANY AGREE THAT THE ARBITRATOR MAY NOT CONSOLIDATE PROCEEDINGS FOR MORE THAN ONE PERSON’S CLAIMS, AND IT MAY NOT OTHERWISE PRESIDE OVER ANY FORM OF A CLASS ACTION. FOR THE AVOIDANCE OF DOUBT, HOWEVER, YOU CAN SEEK PUBLIC INJUNCTIVE RELIEF TO THE EXTENT AUTHORIZED BY LAW AND CONSISTENT WITH THE EXCEPTIONS CLAUSE ABOVE. IF THIS CLASS ACTION WAIVER IS LIMITED, VOIDED, OR FOUND UNENFORCEABLE, THEN, UNLESS THE PARTIES MUTUALLY AGREE OTHERWISE, THE PARTIES’ AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE SHALL BE NULL AND VOID WITH RESPECT TO SUCH PROCEEDING SO LONG AS THE PROCEEDING IS PERMITTED TO PROCEED AS A CLASS ACTION.  IF A COURT DECIDES THAT THE LIMITATIONS OF THIS PARAGRAPH ARE DEEMED INVALID OR UNENFORCEABLE, ANY PUTATIVE CLASS, PRIVATE ATTORNEY GENERAL, OR CONSOLIDATED OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION MUST BE BROUGHT IN A COURT OF PROPER JURISDICTION AND NOT IN ARBITRATION.
SHOPPING WITH PERPLEXITY PRO
Shop With Pro.
If you are a subscriber to Perplexity Pro, you may have the ability to shop certain products offered by third-party merchants (“
Merchants
” and such products, “
Products
”), and the Perplexity Engine [and Perplexity Pages (as defined below)] may facilitate the purchase of such Products from Merchants through the ProShop checkout experience (“
ProShop
”).  We reserve the right, with or without prior notice and in our sole and complete discretion, to refuse to allow any user to purchase any Products through ProShop.  You acknowledge and agree that:
All purchases of any products using ProShop are from the Merchant directly and not the Company; Additional terms and conditions from Merchants will apply to any purchases you make using ProShop, and you are responsible for reviewing and complying with such additional terms and conditions; Additional terms and conditions from Merchants will apply to any purchases you make using ProShop, and you are responsible for reviewing and complying with such additional terms and conditions;
Additional terms and conditions from Merchants will apply to any purchases you make using ProShop, and you are responsible for reviewing and complying with such additional terms and conditions; Company may send you text messages in connection with your order, and you consent to receiving such text messages in accordance with Section 10.1 above, [provided that, if you do not provide or opt-out of such consent, you will be unable to make any purchases using ProShop]; and Company may send you text messages in connection with your order, and you consent to receiving such text messages in accordance with Section 10.1 above, [provided that, if you do not provide or opt-out of such consent, you will be unable to make any purchases using ProShop]
Company may send you text messages in connection with your order, and you consent to receiving such text messages in accordance with Section 10.1 above, [provided that, if you do not provide or opt-out of such consent, you will be unable to make any purchases using ProShop]
Company is not party to any transactions entered into using ProShop and will have no responsibility or liability to you for any products you purchase from Merchants, including any product liability claims or for any additional or improper charges, delivery issues, pricing errors or product descriptions.
Linked Payment Method.
To use ProShop, you must provide a payment method, which may be a U.S. credit or debit card, PayPal account or other payment method approved by us (“
Payment Method
”).  You acknowledge and agree the Payment Method is accurate, current and complete. You represent and warrant that you have the legal right to use the Payment Method you provide to us or our payment processor, including, without limitation, any credit card you provide when completing a transaction.
Payment.
When you complete a transaction through ProShop or make a purchase of Products using the Services, we will provide necessary purchase funds for the purchase on your behalf pursuant to these Terms. We are not a lender and do not provide loans. We do not charge interest or fees on amounts advanced on your behalf pursuant to the purchases of Products through ProShop.At the time of each transaction through ProShop, you contemporaneously authorize us to initiate one or more debits to your Payment Method to deduct total funds equaling the transaction amount, which includes the purchase price of the Products, plus all shipping and handling charges and all applicable taxes in connection with your purchase. These debits are for the purpose of reimbursing Company for purchases made on your behalf via ProShop. Please contact us if you want to cancel this authorization. You also authorize us to retry any failed authorizations. We may use data provided to us by our partners to determine when to schedule such retries. Unless otherwise noted, all currency references are in U.S. Dollars.
Cancellations, Returns & Refunds.
If you have an issue with your order, would like to cancel your order or would like to initiate a return or request a refund, please contact the Merchant directly first. The Merchant will follow their own policy on returns, refunds, cancellations, missing orders and damaged or defective items. If the Merchant confirms you are eligible for a refund, any refunds will be made to the payment method you originally used to make the purchase.
Release.
To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, you release Company and its officers, directors, employees, agents, and successors from any claims, demands, and damages of every kind or nature, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, disclosed or undisclosed, arising out of or in any way related to any dispute you have with a Merchant in connection purchases made using ProShop. If you are a California resident, you shall and hereby do waive California Civil Code Section 1542, which says: “A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS THAT THE CREDITOR OR RELEASING PARTY DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE AND THAT, IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER, WOULD HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR OR RELEASED PARTY.”  We do not endorse, warrant or guarantee any such products or services from Merchants. If you have a dispute with any Merchant, as applicable, we have no obligation or responsibility to become involved, though we may do so at our election in our sole discretion.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
11.1 SMS Messaging and Phone Calls.
Certain portions of the Services may allow us to contact you via telephone or text messages. You agree that the Company may contact you via telephone or text messages (including by an automatic telephone dialing system) at any of the phone numbers provided by you or on your behalf in connection with your use of the Services, including for marketing purposes. You understand that you are not required to provide this consent as a condition of purchasing any Offerings or Services. You also understand that you may opt out of receiving text messages from us at any time. If you do not choose to opt out, we may contact you as outlined in our Privacy Policy.
11.2 Updating These Terms.
We may modify these Terms from time to time in which case we will update the “Last Revised” date at the top of these Terms.  If we make changes that are material, we will use reasonable efforts to attempt to notify you, such as by e-mail and/or by placing a prominent notice on the first page of the Website. However, it is your sole responsibility to review these Terms from time to time to view any such changes.  The updated Terms will be effective as of the time of posting, or such later date as may be specified in the updated Terms. Your continued access or use of the Services after the modifications have become effective will be deemed your acceptance of the modified Terms. No amendment shall apply to a dispute for which an arbitration has been initiated prior to the change in Terms.
11.3 Termination of License and Your Account.
If you breach any of the provisions of these Terms, all licenses granted by the Company will terminate automatically. Additionally, the Company may suspend, disable, or delete your Account and/or the Services (or any part of the foregoing) with or without notice, for any or no reason. If the Company deletes your Account for any suspected breach of these Terms by you, you are prohibited from re-registering for the Services under a different name. In the event of Account deletion for any reason, the Company may, but is not obligated to, delete any of Your Content. the Company shall not be responsible for the failure to delete or deletion of Your Content. All sections which by their nature should survive the termination of these Terms shall continue in full force and effect subsequent to and notwithstanding any termination of these Terms by the Company or you. Termination will not limit any of the Company’s other rights or remedies at law or in equity.
11.4 Injunctive Relief.
You agree that a breach of these Terms will cause irreparable injury to the Company for which monetary damages would not be an adequate remedy and the Company shall be entitled to equitable relief in addition to any remedies it may have hereunder or at law without a bond, other security or proof of damages.
11.5 California Residents.
If you are a California resident, in accordance with Cal. Civ. Code § 1789.3, you may report complaints to the Complaint Assistance Unit of the Division of Consumer Services of the California Department of Consumer Affairs by contacting them in writing at 1625 North Market Blvd., Suite N 112 Sacramento, CA 95834, or by telephone at (800) 952-5210.
11.6 Export Laws.
You agree that you will not export or re-export, directly or indirectly, the Services and/or other information or materials provided by the Company hereunder, to any country for which the United States or any other relevant jurisdiction requires any export license or other governmental approval at the time of export without first obtaining such license or approval. In particular, but without limitation, the Services may not be exported or re-exported (a) into any U.S. embargoed countries or any country that has been designated by the U.S. Government as a “terrorist supporting” country, or (b) to anyone listed on any U.S. Government list of prohibited or restricted parties, including the U.S. Treasury Department’s list of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Person’s List or Entity List. By using the Services, you represent and warrant that you are not located in any such country or on any such list. You are responsible for and hereby agree to comply at your sole expense with all applicable United States export laws and regulations.
11.7 Miscellaneous.
If any provision of these Terms shall be unlawful, void or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision shall be deemed severable from these Terms and shall not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining provisions. These Terms and the licenses granted hereunder may be assigned by the Company but may not be assigned by you without the prior express written consent of the Company. No waiver by either party of any breach or default hereunder shall be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or subsequent breach or default. The section headings used herein are for reference only and shall not be read to have any legal effect. The Services are operated by us in the United States. Those who choose to access the Services from locations outside the United States do so at their own initiative and are responsible for compliance with applicable local laws. These Terms are governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to conflict of laws rules, and the proper venue for any disputes arising out of or relating to any of the same will be the arbitration venue set forth in Section 9, or if arbitration does not apply, then the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California. You and the Company agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods will not apply to the interpretation or construction of these Terms.
11.8 How to Contact Us.
You may contact us regarding the Services or these Terms at: 115 Sansome St. Suite 900, San Francisco, CA 94104, by phone at +1 (510) 270-0840 or by e-mail at
support@perplexity.ai
.
COMPANY
Careers
Press Inquires
Brand Guidelines
Supply Store
Privacy Policy
Security
Terms & Conditions
PRODUCT
Comet Browser
Desktop App
iPhone App
Android App
RESOURCES
Getting Started
Help Center
Changelog
Give Feedback
API PLATFORM
API Overview
API Models
API Documentation
API FAQs
API Terms of Service
FOLLOW US
X (Twitter)
Discord
Threads
Linkedin
YouTube
© Copyright 2025 Perplexity — Where Knowledge Begins

--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/privacy-policy ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Try Perplexity
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Partner & Promotion Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity's Privacy Policy
Last updated: February 02, 2025
This Privacy Policy describes how Perplexity AI, Inc. (“
we
”, “
us
,” “
our
”) collects, uses and discloses information about individuals who use our websites (
www.perplexity.ai
and
https://labs.perplexity.ai
) to access the free version of our product or Perplexity Pro, other applications, services, tools and features, or who purchase our products or otherwise interact with us (collectively, the “
Services
”). For the purposes of this Privacy Policy, we are the data controller, and “
you
” and “
your
” means you as the user of the Services, whether you are a customer, website visitor, job applicant, representative of a company with whom we do business, or another individual whose information we have collected pursuant to this Privacy Policy. This Privacy Policy does not cover the use of the Perplexity API or Enterprise Pro, where we act solely as a processor, and which are governed by the applicable Terms and Conditions, including the Data Processing Addendum incorporated therein, that you agree to when signing up for a subscription to the Business Services.
DataRep, a company registered at The Cube, Monahan Road, Cork, T12 H1XY, Republic of Ireland (EU), with the contact email address privacy@perplexity.ai, is our representative in the European Economic Area (
“EEA”
) for the purposes of the EU GDPR. TrustKeith Ltd, a company registered at 20-22 Wenlock Road, London, N1 7GU with the contact email address privacy@perplexity.ai, is our DPO in the United Kingdom (“
UK
”) for the purposes of the UK GDPR.
Please read this Privacy Policy carefully. By using any of the Services, you agree to the collection, use, and disclosure of your information as described in this Privacy Policy. If you do not agree to this Privacy Policy, please do not use or access the Services.
CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY NOTICE
We may modify this Privacy Policy from time to time, in which case we will update the “Last Updated” date at the top of this Privacy Policy. If we make material changes to the way in which we use or disclose information we collect, we will use reasonable efforts to notify you (such as by emailing you at the last email address you provided us, by posting notice of such changes on the Services, or by other means consistent with applicable law) and will take additional steps as required by applicable law. If you do not agree to any updates to this Privacy Policy, please do not continue using or accessing the Services.
COLLECTION AND USE OF YOUR INFORMATION
When you use or access the Services, we collect certain categories of information about you from a variety of sources.
Information You Provide to Us:
Some features of the Services may require you to directly provide us with certain information about yourself. You may elect not to provide this information, but doing so may prevent you from using or accessing these features. Information that you directly submit through our Services includes:
Basic contact details, such as name, address, phone number, and email (“
Contact Information
”). We use this information where necessary to perform our contract with you to provide the Services, and to communicate with you (including, with your consent where required, to tell you about certain promotions or products or services that may be of interest to you).
Account information, such as name, username, email and password (“
Account Information
”). We use this information where necessary to perform our contract with you to provide the Services and to maintain and secure your account with us. If you choose to register an account, you are responsible for keeping your account credentials safe. We recommend you do not share your access details with anyone else. If you believe your account has been compromised, please contact us immediately at support@perplexity.ai.
Payment information, such as credit or debit card information and billing address, which we collect using a third party payment processor (“
Payment Information
”). We use this information where necessary to perform our contract with you to process your payment and provide the Services.
Applicant details, such as information included in your resume or CV, references, and job history (“
Applicant Information
”). We use applicant details in our legitimate interests to process your application for employment and to evaluate your candidacy. For Singapore, we use this information for evaluative purposes and for the purposes of entering into an employment relationship with you.
Your input and output, such as questions, prompts and other content that you input, upload or submit to the Services, and the output that you create, and any collections or pages that you generate using the Services (“
Service Interaction Information
”). This content may constitute or contain personal information, depending on the substance and how it is associated with your account. We use this information where necessary to perform our contract with you to generate and output new content as part of the Services. If you make content publicly available or share content with third parties, please note that it may be stored, displayed, reproduced, published, or otherwise used or disclosed without your permission, and may or may not be attributed to you.
Any other information you choose to include in communications with us when necessary to perform our contract with you, for example, when sending a message through the Services or providing your size when purchasing certain products (“
Other Information You Provide
”).
Information Collected Automatically:
We and certain third parties also automatically collect certain information about your interaction with the Services (“
Usage Data
”) through the use of cookies, pixels, tags and other tracking technologies (“
Tracking Technologies
”). Usage Data includes:
Device information, such as device type, operating system, unique device identifier, and internet protocol (IP) address.
Location information, such as approximate location.
Other information regarding your interaction with the Services, such as browser type, log data, date and time stamps, clickstream data, interactions with marketing emails, and ad impressions.
We use Usage Data in our legitimate interests to tailor features and content to you, run analytics and measure and better understand user interaction with the Services, and we may permit third parties to use Usage Data for such purposes. For more information on how we use Tracking Technologies and your choices, see the section below, Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies.
Information Collected From Other Sources:
We may obtain information about you from outside sources, including information that we collect directly from third parties and information from third parties that you choose to share with us. Such information includes:
Analytics data we receive from analytics providers such as Google Analytics (“
Analytics Information
”), which we use in our legitimate interests to understand your interaction with, and improve, our Services.
Information we receive from career websites, such as LinkedIn, Monster, or Indeed, which we use in our legitimate interests to process your application for employment (“
Employment Information
”). For Singapore, we use this information for evaluative purposes and for the purposes of entering into an employment relationship with you.
Information we receive from consumer marketing databases or other data enrichment companies, which we use in our legitimate interests to better customize advertising and marketing to you (“
Advertising Information
”).
Information we receive from business partners and other companies that we partner with to provide you with free or discounted access to the Services or other offers or promotions, which we use in our legitimate interests to provide you with free or discounted access to the Services (“
Partner Information
”).
Information we receive when you choose to link any third-party platforms to your account, such as when you sign into your account through Google or Apple (“
Third Party Platform Information
”). We use this information only where necessary to perform our contract with you, to maintain your account and login information and to provide you with the Services, including to generate and output new content.  Third Party Platform Information may includes your name, profile picture and email address.
Information from publicly accessible sources, such as information that’s publicly available online (like articles, websites, and journals) or from other public sources, which we use where necessary to perform our contract with you (“
Public Information
”).
In addition to the specific uses described above, we may use any of the above information to provide you with and improve the Services (including our AI models) and to maintain our business relationship, including by enhancing the safety and security of our Services (e.g., troubleshooting, data analysis, testing, system maintenance, and reporting), providing customer support, sending service and other non-marketing communications, monitoring and analyzing trends, and conducting internal research and development. We may also use the information to comply with applicable legal obligations, enforce any applicable terms of service, and protect the Services, our rights, and the rights of our employees, users or other individuals.
You may also have the ability to sync your third party email account or calendar (such as Gmail and Google Calendar) with the Services. If you choose to sync these accounts, we will have access to your contacts and information from the email messages and calendar appointments in your email account, including the content of your emails (together, “
Email Service Information
”). Notwithstanding anything else in this Privacy Policy, we only use and disclose Email Service Information to provide the Services or as otherwise required by applicable law, and we do not use or disclose Email Service Information to create, train, improve or fine-tune AI models. If you sync your Google account with the Services, we only use and disclose information from your Google account in accordance with the Google API Services User Data Policy, including the Limited Use requirements.
Finally, we may, in our legitimate interests, deidentify or anonymize your information such that it cannot reasonably be used to infer information about you or otherwise be linked to you (“
Deidentified Information
”) (or we may collect information that has already been deidentified/anonymized), and we may use such Deidentified Information for any purpose. To the extent we possess or process any deidentified information, we will maintain and use such information in deidentified/anonymized form and not attempt to reidentify the information, except solely for the purpose of determining whether our deidentification/anonymization process satisfies legal requirements.
Any information we receive from outside sources will be treated in accordance with this Privacy Policy. We are not responsible for the accuracy of the information provided to us by third parties and are not responsible for any third party’s policies or practices. For more information, see the section below, Third Party Websites and Links. To the extent the laws in your jurisdiction do not recognize the legal basis of legitimate interest or another legal basis specified above for a particular purpose, you consent to the processing of your personal data for that purpose through using the Services.
COOKIES AND OTHER TRACKING TECHNOLOGIES
Most browsers accept cookies automatically, but you may be able to control the way in which your devices permit the use of Tracking Technologies. If you so choose, you may block or delete our cookies from your browser or limit cross-site tracking; however, blocking or deleting cookies may cause some of the Services, including certain features and general functionality, to work incorrectly. If you have questions regarding the specific information about you that we process or retain, as well as your choices regarding our collection and use practices, please contact us using the information listed below.
To opt out of tracking by Google Analytics, click
here
.
Your browser settings may allow you to transmit a ‘do not track’ signal. Like many websites, our website is not designed to respond to such signals. To learn more about ‘do not track’ signals, you can visit
http://www.allaboutdnt.com/
.
DISCLOSURE OF YOUR INFORMATION
We may disclose your information to third parties subject to this Privacy Policy, including the following categories of third parties:
Company Group:
Our affiliates or others within our corporate group, in accordance with our contract with you, and for internal administration or support purposes, in our legitimate interest to run a successful business and in order to provide our Services.
Service Providers:
Vendors or other service providers who help us provide the Services, including for system administration, cloud storage, generative AI and content creation, security, customer transaction facilitation and relationship management, marketing communications, web analytics, payment networks, and payment processing.
Business Partners:
Third parties through whom you receive access to our Services, including via use of a promotion code or other method provided by such business partners, in our legitimate interest to provide you with free or discounted access to our Services.
Other Third Parties, including other users:
Third parties to whom you request or direct us to disclose information, such as through your use of social media widgets or login integrations, when you purchase third-party goods through the Services, send an email or interact with your third party email or calendar account through the Services, or otherwise choose to share or make output or other information visible to others, including other users. We do this as necessary for the performance of a contract, or in our legitimate interest to provide you with access to the Services and integrations with third parties, or with your consent.
Advertising Partners:
Third parties who display advertising information on our Services or otherwise assist with the delivery of ads.
Professional Advisors:
As necessary, we will share your personal data with professional advisors such as auditors, law firms, or accounting firms.
Business Transactions:
We will share personal information with a prospective buyer, seller, new owner, or other relevant third party as necessary while negotiating or in relation to a change of corporate control such as a restructuring, merger, asset sale or purchase, bankruptcy or other business transaction or re-organization. We do this in our legitimate interest to run a successful and compliant business, and as required by applicable law.
We may also disclose your information as needed to comply with applicable law or any obligations thereunder or to cooperate with law enforcement, judicial orders, and regulatory inquiries, to enforce any applicable terms of service, and to ensure the safety and security of our business, employees, and users. We do this in our legitimate interest to protect our Service and business and to comply with applicable law.
SOCIAL FEATURES
Certain features of the Services may allow you to initiate interactions between the Services and third-party services or platforms, such as Discord, X (formerly Twitter) and other social networks (“
Social Features
”). Social Features include features that allow you to access our pages on third-party platforms, and from there ‘like’ or ‘share’ our content. Use of Social Features may allow a third party to collect and/or use your information. If you use Social Features, information you post or make accessible may be publicly displayed by the third-party service. Both we and the third party may have access to information about you and your use of both the Services and the third-party service. For more information, see the section below, Third Party Websites and Links.
THIRD PARTY WEBSITES AND LINKS
We may provide links to third-party websites or platforms, such as Discord and X (formerly Twitter). If you follow links to sites or platforms that we do not control and are not affiliated with us, you should review the applicable privacy notice, policies and other terms. We are not responsible for the privacy or security of, or information found on, these sites or platforms. Information you provide on public or semi-public venues, such as third-party social networking platforms, may also be viewable by other users of the Services and/or users of those third-party platforms without limitation as to its use. Our inclusion of such links does not, by itself, imply any endorsement of the content on such platforms or of their owners or operators.
CHILDREN’S PRIVACY
Children under the age of 13 are not permitted to use the Services, and we do not seek or knowingly collect any personal information about children, particularly those under 13 years of age or in the case of a region where the minimum age for processing personal information differs, such different age. For users above the age of 13 but below the age where you are able to consent to the processing of your personal information, please obtain your parent or guardian’s consent prior to using the Services.
If we become aware that we have unknowingly collected information about a child under 13 years of age or the relevant minimum age in your jurisdiction, we will make commercially reasonable efforts to delete such information. If you are the parent or guardian of a child under the relevant minimum age who has provided us with their personal information, you may contact us using the below information to request that it be deleted.
DATA SECURITY AND RETENTION
Despite our reasonable efforts to protect your information, no security measures are impenetrable, and we cannot guarantee “perfect security.” Any information you send to us electronically, while using the Services or otherwise interacting with us, may not be secure while in transit. We recommend that you do not use unsecure channels to send us sensitive or confidential information.
We retain your information for as long as is reasonably necessary for the purposes specified in this Privacy Policy. When determining the length of time to retain your information, we consider various criteria, including whether we need the information to continue to provide you the Services, resolve a dispute, enforce our contractual agreements, prevent harm, promote safety, security and integrity, or protect ourselves, including our rights, property or products.
U.S. RESIDENTS
This section supplements the other sections of this Privacy Policy and applies to you only if you are a resident of California or another U.S. state that has passed a privacy law similar to the California Consumer Privacy Act (“
CCPA
”) that applies to us, and the law requires specific privacy notice disclosures. For purposes of this section, references to “
personal information
” shall include “
sensitive personal information
,” as these terms are defined under the CCPA.
Processing of Personal Information:
In the preceding 12 months, we collected and disclosed for a business purpose the following categories of personal information and sensitive personal information (denoted by *) about residents:
Identifiers, such as name, e-mail address and IP address
Personal information categories listed in the California Customer Records statute such as name, address and telephone number
Commercial information such as records of products or services purchased
Internet or other similar network activity such as Usage Data
Geolocation data such as IP address
Professional or employment-related information such as title of profession, employer, professional background and other information provided by you when you apply for a job with us
Non-public education information collected by certain federally funded institutions such as education records that you provide when you apply for a job with us
Account access credentials* for the Services
The contents of email messages in the email inboxes that you connect to your Perplexity account, and the content of email messages you send through Perplexity*
The specific business or commercial purposes for which we have collected and disclosed your personal information and the categories of sources from which we collect your personal information are described in the section above, Collection and Use Your Information. The third parties that we have disclosed your information to are described in Section 4 (Disclosure of Your Information) above. We only use and disclose sensitive personal information for the purposes specified in the CCPA or otherwise in line with your consent. The criteria we use to determine how long to retain your personal information is described in the section above, Data Security and Retention.
Selling and/or Sharing of Personal Information:
We do not “sell” or “share” (as those terms are defined under the CCPA) personal information, nor have we done so in the preceding 12 months.
Further, we do not have actual knowledge that we “sell” or “share” personal information of residents under 16 years of age.
California Account Holders Under 18:
Any California residents under the age of eighteen (18) who have registered to use the Services and who have posted content or information available to others on the Services can request that such information be removed from the Services by contacting us at the e-mail address set forth in the section below, How to Contact Us. Such request must state that they personally posted such content or information and detail where the content or information is posted. We will make reasonable good faith efforts to remove the post from prospective public view or anonymize it so the resident cannot be individually identified. This removal process cannot ensure complete or comprehensive removal. For instance, third parties may have republished the post, and archived copies of it may be stored by search engines and other parties that we do not control.
DATA TRANSFERS
The personal information that we collect will be transferred to, stored at/processed in, or accessed from countries outside the jurisdiction in which you are based in, for the purposes described in this Privacy Policy, including countries in which our service providers or other third parties described in Section 4 are located. Specifically, we have servers for the Service in the US. We also have support, engineering and other teams who may support the Service, including from the United States.
We process the personal information that you provide to us by creating an account and using our Services in countries outside the relevant jurisdiction you are resident in in order to perform our contract with you (to provide you with our Services). By using the Services and acknowledging the Privacy Policy, you consent to the transfer of your personal information to third parties (if any), which may include the cross-border transfer of your information to any country or region where we have databases or affiliates and, in particular, to the jurisdictions specified herein. For such transfers of data outside the relevant jurisdiction will use applicable safeguards, for example,  for UK and EEA users, the European Commission’s model contracts for the transfer of personal information to third countries (i.e., the standard contractual clauses) (the “
Model Clauses
”), or any equivalent contracts issued by the relevant competent authority of the UK, as relevant, unless the data transfer is to a country that has been determined by the European Commission or the relevant UK authorities, as applicable, to provide an adequate level of protection for individuals’ rights and freedoms for their personal information. Please contact us at
support@perplexity.ai
should you wish to inquire further as to such data transfer mechanisms, including to examine a copy of the Model Clauses.
For EU and UK users:
We comply with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce (collectively, the “DPF”) and have certified to the U.S. Department of Commerce that we adhere to the DPF Principles with regard to the processing of personal data received from the European Union and UK (and Gibraltar) in reliance on the DPF.
If there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy policy and the DPF Principles, the Principles shall govern to the extent applicable to the information at issue. The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction over our compliance with the DPF and, in accordance with the DPF, we are responsible for onward transfers to third parties that process personal information subject to the DPF in a way that does not follow the DPF Principles. To learn more about the Data Privacy Framework program, and to view our certification, please visit the Data Privacy Framework website.
We commit to resolve DPF Principles-related complaints about our collection and use of personal information. Individuals in the EU and UK with inquiries or complaints regarding our compliance with the DPF should first contact us, at support@perplexity.ai. If you have an unresolved complaint concerning our handling of personal information received in reliance on the DPF that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our U.S.-based third-party dispute resolution provider (free of charge) at https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/. Under certain conditions (more fully described here) you may be entitled to invoke binding arbitration to resolve your complaint. In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, we commit to cooperate and comply respectively with the advice of the panel established by the EU data protection authorities (DPAs) and the UK Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) with regard to unresolved complaints concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF.
YOUR RIGHTS AND CHOICES
Depending on where you live, you may have some or all of the rights listed below in relation to personal information that we have collected about you. However, these rights are not absolute, and in certain cases, we may decline your request as permitted by law.
Right to Access / Know.
You may have a right to request access to personal information that we hold about you, or to request information about our collection, use and disclosure of your personal information, such as the categories of personal information we have collected or disclosed for a business purpose.
Right to Delete
.  You may have a right to request that we delete personal information we maintain about you.
Right to Correct.
You may have a right to request that we correct inaccurate personal information we maintain about you.
Right of Portability
. You may have the right to receive a copy of the personal information we hold about you and to request that we transfer it to a third party.
Restriction of Processing
. You may have the right to ask us to stop, suspend or restrict our processing of personal information.
Objection
. You may have the right to object to our processing of personal information.
Withdrawal of Consent
. Where we rely on consent to process your personal information, you may have the right to withdraw this consent at any time by contacting us at
support@perplexity.ai
. Please note that the withdrawal of consent does not affect the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal, and that where you withdraw your consent, we may not be able to deliver the expected service to you.
You may choose to stop receiving personalized advertising or marketing promotions from us when using the Services by contacting us at our email address provided below.
You may exercise any of these rights by contacting us using the information provided below. We will not discriminate against you for exercising any of these rights. We may need to collect information from you to verify your identity, such as your email address and government issued ID, before providing a substantive response to the request. You may designate, in writing or through a power of attorney document, an authorized agent to make requests on your behalf to exercise your rights. Before accepting such a request from an agent, we will require that the agent provide proof you have authorized them to act on your behalf, and we may need you to verify your identity directly with us. If we deny your request, you may appeal our decision by contacting us using the information provided below. You may opt out of information collection for AI (which would prohibit us from using your search information to improve our AI models) in your settings page if you are logged into the Services. You may also request to delete your account through the settings page or by contacting us at
support@perplexity.ai
. If you delete your account, we aim to delete your personal information from our servers within 30 days. Please contact us at
support@perplexity.ai
to request deletion.
COMPLAINTS
If you have complaints about how we process your personal information, please contact us at
support@perplexity.ai
and/or your local representative’s contact details as set out above, and we will respond to your request as soon as possible.
If you think we have infringed data protection laws, you can file a claim with the data protection supervisory authority in the country in which you live or work or where you think we have infringed data protection laws, or with the UK Information Commissioner’s Office, or other relevant data protection authority as applicable to you.
HOW TO CONTACT US
Should you have any questions about our privacy practices or this Privacy Policy, please email us at
support@perplexity.ai
and/or your local representative’s contact details as set out above.
LANGUAGE
Except as otherwise prescribed by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the English language version and local language version of this Privacy Policy, the English language version will prevail.
COMPANY
Careers
Press Inquires
Brand Guidelines
Supply Store
Privacy Policy
Security
Terms & Conditions
PRODUCT
Comet Browser
Desktop App
iPhone App
Android App
RESOURCES
Getting Started
Help Center
Changelog
Give Feedback
API PLATFORM
API Overview
API Models
API Documentation
API FAQs
API Terms of Service
FOLLOW US
X (Twitter)
Discord
Threads
Linkedin
YouTube
© Copyright 2025 Perplexity — Where Knowledge Begins

--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/aup ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Try Perplexity
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Partner & Promotion Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Acceptable Use Policy
Last updated: July 8th, 2025
Thank you for choosing to use Perplexity (the “Services”). At Perplexity AI, Inc. (“Perplexity”), we are committed to lawful, safe and responsible artificial intelligence development and use, which this Acceptable Use Policy (this “Policy”) is designed to promote.
Please note that this Policy is incorporated into the terms and conditions or other agreement that you have entered into with Perplexity (or an authorized third-party distributor) that governs your use of the Services.
Respect applicable law
.  You must not access, deploy or use the Services to conduct or facilitate any activity that is unlawful, fraudulent, or that violates the rights of others. For example, you may not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Facilitate cybercrime or other types of crime (e.g., hacking, phishing, identity theft, or creation or distribution of malware); or plan, promote, advocate, or assist in any illegal or violent actions (e.g., terrorism, threats, or the planning of violent or criminal acts);
Compromise the privacy of others (e.g., collecting, disclosing or otherwise processing personal data without complying with applicable legal requirements);
Violate any contract or agreement to which you are a party; or
Submit any material to the Services, or use the Services to create, compile or distribute any material, without having all necessary rights, licenses, consents or permissions to do so.
Avoid high-risk activity.
You must not access, deploy or use the Services to conduct or facilitate any activity that poses a significant threat to individuals or society (whether or not it is expressly illegal in your jurisdiction). For example, you may not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Create, compile or distribute disinformation or manipulative content; harassing, hateful or defamatory content; pornographic or exploitative content; unsolicited advertising or promotional materials; or unauthorized collections of personal data;
Create content that you subsequently claim was created solely by humans, or otherwise misrepresent the provenance of information or content; or provide chatbot services without disclosing to end users that they are interacting with AI (unless it is obvious from the context);
Facilitate or engage in real money gambling, payday lending, political campaigning, lobbying, academic dishonesty or self-harm;
Provide services targeted to users under the age of 13; or medical, financial, tax, legal or other services that would typically require specialized credentials or licensing without appropriate professional oversight;
Make automated decisions about individuals that materially impact them (e.g., decisions regarding their employment, healthcare, finances, housing or insurance) or where errors could be dangerous (e.g., decisions related to the management of critical infrastructure or safety components of products); or
Engage in any activity or practice that is prohibited or considered ‘high risk’ under the European Union’s AI Act (
here
) or any other similar regulations governing deployment and/or use of artificial intelligence systems of services.
Avoid technical misuse
.  You must respect Perplexity and the third parties whose AI models help power the Services. This means you must not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Copy, distribute, rent, lease, lend, license, transfer or make derivative works of the Services or any related materials or use any of the foregoing on a service bureau or similar basis;
Decompile, distill, jailbreak, subject to prompt injection or other adversarial attacks, reverse engineer, or disassemble the Services or otherwise attempt to discover the source code, model weights or other algorithmic parameters of the Services (including the third-party AI models used in the Services);
Probe, scan, or test the vulnerability of the Services or related systems;
Remove watermarks, metadata or other indicia intended to identify outputs as artificially generated or manipulated, or circumvent abuse protections or safety filters, whether Perplexity’s or those of a third party;
Create or make available any products or services competitive with, similar to, or that would otherwise be a substitute for the Services (or the third-party AI models used in the Services), except with Perplexity’s express prior written permission; or
Engage in any activity that interferes with, disrupts, damages or accesses in an unauthorized manner the servers, networks or other properties or services of Perplexity or any third party.
Respect our partners
. The Services may use AI models provided by third parties. When using the Services, therefore, you must comply with those parties’ acceptable usage policies.
Exceptions
. Perplexity, in its sole discretion, may grant educational, documentary, scientific, or artistic-based exceptions to this Policy, or where harms are outweighed by substantial benefits to the public.
Changes to This Policy
. We may modify this Policy at any time to reflect changes in our practices, technology, legal requirements, or other factors. Your continued use of the Services following the posting or notice of any changes will mean you accept those changes.
By accessing, deploying or using the Services, you agree to comply with this Policy.  Subject to the terms of your agreement with Perplexity or authorized third-party distributor (as applicable), your failure to comply with this Policy may result in suspension or termination, or both, of the Services.
COMPANY
Careers
Press Inquires
Brand Guidelines
Supply Store
Privacy Policy
Security
Terms & Conditions
PRODUCT
Comet Browser
Desktop App
iPhone App
Android App
RESOURCES
Getting Started
Help Center
Changelog
Give Feedback
API PLATFORM
API Overview
API Models
API Documentation
API FAQs
API Terms of Service
FOLLOW US
X (Twitter)
Discord
Threads
Linkedin
YouTube
© Copyright 2025 Perplexity — Where Knowledge Begins