--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/terms-of-service ---

This site can’t be reached
The webpage at
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/terms-of-service
might be temporarily down or it may have moved permanently to a new web address.
ERR_NO_SUPPORTED_PROXIES
The webpage at
https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/terms-of-service
might be temporarily down or it may have moved permanently to a new web address.

--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/privacy-policy ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Ask anything
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Privacy Notice
Last updated: July 2, 2026
This Privacy Notice (“Notice”) applies to personal data Perplexity AI, Inc. and its affiliates (collectively, “Perplexity,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) collects through our websites, the Comet browser, mobile applications (the “app”), and other services (the “services”). This notice does not apply to data collected through Perplexity’s
Enterprise
and
API
offerings where we act as a service provider or processor with regard to the data collected through those systems.
Data We Collect
We collect data about you in different ways. For example, we collect data:
Directly from you. This includes when you make an account, submit queries, upload documents, enroll in one of our paid plans, or contact us by any means.
Automatically. This includes through cookies or pixels, your device, server logs, and other tools used by our services.
From other sources. These can include our affiliates, vendors, social media, publicly available sources, and other companies.
The following are a few examples of our collection and use of data:
Context
Examples of Personal data
Primary Purpose and Legal Basis
Account Registration
When you make an account, we collect your name, contact information, username and password, and, in some instances, device and network identifiers. We also collect data on the actions that you perform while logged in.
If you invite another person to create an account or use our services, we will process their contact information solely to facilitate that invitation.
We have a legitimate interest in providing account related functionalities to users. Accounts can offer opportunities to, among other things, collaborate among users, save preferences, and save query history.
Business Contact Information
We collect the name and contact information of the employees of our enterprise clients and of our vendors.
We have a legitimate interest in contacting our enterprise clients and our vendors and communicating with them about business activities such as projects, services, and billing.
Comet - Saved Information
If you save settings, passwords, payment data, account information, or other content to your Comet browser, we process that data.
We have a legitimate interest in providing a convenient service. In most instances, your information is saved based on your consent.
Comet - Use and Browsing History
Depending on your settings, we record your browsing history and track your use and engagement when you use Comet with your synced Perplexity account.
If you use incognito mode, note that we, and third parties like the websites that you visit, may still be able to track you. Other people that use your device will not see your history from previous sessions, however. We will also attempt to prevent websites from accessing third-party cookies, although they may still be able to access first-party cookies.
For further information about privacy settings and controls in Comet, see
here
.
We have a legitimate interest in learning about your preferences to tailor our services to you. Additionally, we provide this history for your convenience.
Comet – Local Data
In addition to the data that we collect, Comet is designed to collect and store certain information locally on your system. This includes browsing data, permissions you have granted to websites, and records of your downloads. While we do not access this data, this type of interaction data may be used to provide and improve Comet and recommend relevant content.
We have a legitimate interest in creating a seamless user experience. Storing local data allows for a continuous experience between sessions even if the browser has been closed.
Email Assistant
If you choose to link Email Assistant to your email provider, the service will analyze the contents of messages you send and receive in order to advise on responses.
We access this data to perform our contract with you. We do not use the content of emails to create, train, improve, or fine-tune AI models.
If you sync your Google account with the services, we only use and disclose data from your Google account in accordance with the Google API Services User Data Policy, including the Limited Use requirements.
Demographics
We may collect demographic data such as your age, race, or religion if you choose to upload it. This may also be collected through certain services such as our health offerings.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding our users and potential customers better. In some instances, we may process this data as part of our contract with you.
Email Interactions
If you receive email from us, we use tools to capture when you open our message, click on links or banners in it, or make purchases after receiving an email.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding how you engage with our messages.
Feedback/Support
If you contact us we collect your name and email as well as the content that you send.
We have a legitimate interest in receiving and acting upon feedback, and to provide support.
Perplexity Health
If you choose to participate in one of our health-related services or otherwise submit health-related data to our services, we will process the health data you make available. This may include information provided directly by you as User Content, or it may include data you authorize to be shared with us by other entities or apps.
We process your health data based on your consent and, in some instances, to perform our contract with you.
Job Applicants
If you apply for a job we collect information needed to process your application. This may include your social security number, references, and any information on your resume or provided by the third party you use to submit your application. Providing this information is required for employment.
In some contexts, we are required by law to collect data about applicants. We also have a legitimate interest in using data to evaluate your application or consider you for other positions. If you become an employee, we will provide you with a separate privacy notice that explains how we collect, use, and share data about our employees.
Location
Our services may collect your general location from the IP address from which you connect. This lets us determine your general location for location-specific queries.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding our users and providing tailored services.
Mailing List
When you sign up for our mailing lists, we collect your contact information.
We have a legitimate interest in sharing information about our products and services. Where required by law we will ask for your consent before communicating with you.
Device Data
We collect information your device broadcasts when you use our services. This could include, for example, operating system, hardware specifications, memory data, your IP address, and information about crashes and errors.
We have a legitimate interest in identifying unique users and understanding how users engage with us on their mobile device.
Partner Promotion
We collect data that you provide as part of co-branded promotions with other companies.
We have a legitimate interest in fulfilling our promotions. Note that many co-branded promotions involve the collection of information by us, and the other company identified in the promotion. Where data is jointly collected, your data may be sent to both companies. This privacy notice applies to our use of your data. You should review the privacy notice of the other company identified in the promotion to understand their use of your data.
Purchases
We collect your name, billing, shipping, and email addresses, phone number, and credit or debit card information when you place an order, along with information about what you have purchased. Payment information may be processed through a third party acting as our payment processor.
We use your information to perform our contract to provide products or services or to facilitate the purchase of products or services, this could include sharing information with a shipping company.
Surveys
We collect data you share through surveys. If a third-party offers a survey, the third party’s privacy notice also applies to the collection, use, and disclosure of your data.
We have a legitimate interest in understanding your opinions.
Targeted Advertising Technology
We may share data with third parties to measure the performance of our advertising, including via server-to-server connections and web attribution and measurement technologies (e.g., a cookie or a pixel). The third party may also collect data over time and across websites operated by other companies. Among other things, third parties may use this data to serve ads tailored to your interests, which may include ads about our products or services.
Where required by law, we base the use of third-party tracking technologies upon consent. You can also find more information about your options with regard to this technology in the Your Choices section below.
Use of our App
We collect your username and password, as well as device information, and other data related to your engagement with our services when you use our app.
In some instances, we use your information to perform our contract to provide app related services. We have a legitimate interest in understanding how you use our app. Where required by law, or by a mobile platform, we base the use of third-party tracking technologies upon consent.  Users should go to the settings menu in their mobile device for more information about changing app preferences.
Use of Our Web Services
We use technology (e.g., a cookie or a pixel) to learn how you engage with our websites. This may include which links you click or what you type as a prompt, or usage data such as the timing of your use or reports of crashes. We may also track your IP address, the website that referred you to us, and data about your device.
We have a legitimate interest in making our websites operate. We also use the data to understand how you interact with our services, gather analytics, improve our websites, and learn your preferences. We may also use this data to help detect and prevent fraud. Where required by law, we base the use of technologies upon consent.
User Content – Input and Output
We process content you submit while using our services, including prompts, queries, uploads, and any other data you choose to provide.
We also process data about the output our services generate, and what you create such as collections, pages, or Spaces.
To the extent any of this content includes personal data, we will process it.
If you engage in forums, blogs, or other similar features offered by us, we may maintain records about the content you provide. We may further process metadata associated with such content.
We have a legitimate interest in processing your content to provide you with our services. We also use this data to understand your preferences, create convenient services across sessions, and otherwise allow you to tailor your experience to your interests and needs. We process data related to your content on the basis of your consent, and in some instances, in order to perform our contract with you.
Voice Data
If you enable voice activation or choose to use the speech-to-query feature in one of our services, we may process data about your speech.
We process voice data based on your consent. We also have a legitimate interest in offering convenient services for our users.
If you are in a consent-based jurisdiction, our lawful basis for processing your data is generally consent.
How We Use Data
We also use data to:
Identify you when you visit our sites.
Complete transactions.
Improve or create services and products, including our AI models.
Streamline checkouts.
Conduct analytics.
Connect with you (e.g., addressing your requests, inquiries, issues, or feedback).
Send service and other non-marketing communications.
Market our products or services.
Market the products or services of our business partners.
Find and prevent malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal activity.
Find and prevent security incidents.
Enforce our policies and agreements.
Debug, find, and fix errors that impair our website and services.
Enhance safety, security, and performance of the services.
Troubleshoot, test, perform system maintenance, report, and develop services.
Conduct internal research.
Comply with legal or regulatory obligations.
Establish or exercise our rights.
Defend against legal claims.
Manage our relationships.
For other reasons with your consent.
The sections above describe our main purposes in collecting your data, but often we have multiple purposes. For instance, if you make an online purchase, we may collect your information to perform our contract with you. We also have a legitimate interest in maintaining that data so that we can easily address questions about an order or improve our handling of your queries in the future. As a result, our collection and processing of your data is based in different contexts on your consent, our need to perform a contract, our legal obligations, and/or our legitimate interest in conducting our business.
To the extent we store and use deidentified personal data, we will not try to reidentify the information, except to test our deidentification methods. If we share deidentified data we will obligate the recipient not to try to reidentify the data.
How We Share Data
In addition to the specific situations discussed elsewhere in this Notice we may share personal data in the following situations:
Company Group, Affiliates, and Acquisitions. We may share data among our Company Group, which includes our affiliates (e.g., parent company, sister companies, subsidiaries, joint ventures, or other companies under common control). If a company acquires or enters negotiations to acquire our company, business, or assets, we may share data with that company.
Other Disclosures without Your Consent. We may share data to cooperate with law enforcement, participate in a legal process, or for legal compliance. We may share your data to establish or exercise our rights, to defend against legal claims, to investigate, prevent, or act on possible illegal activities, threats to safety of person or property, or a violation of our policies.
Public. Some of our websites may allow for comments or reviews in a public forum. If you post on these pages, what you share may be publicly available. If you use our services to post on third-party sites not managed but us, those posts may be publicly available. Such content will be handled according to the third-party site’s privacy notice.
Service Providers. We share your data with service providers. Service providers help us to run our services, conduct surveys, provide technical support, process payments, fulfill orders, and more.
Business Partners. If you receive access to our services through a third party, including via the use of a promotion code or other method provided by such third party, we may share your personal data with that third party.
Professional Services. We may share personal data with our professional service providers, such as auditors or lawyers.
Other Disclosures with Your Consent. We may share your data with third parties when you consent or direct us to, such as when you engage with third parties through our services.
Some places require us to disclose whether the following categories of personal data are collected, shared with third parties for a “business purpose,” “sold,” or transferred for “valuable consideration.” The table below indicates the categories of personal data we collect and transfer in a variety of contexts. We do not “sell” your personal data for money.
Category of Personal Information
Category of Recipients
Disclosures for a Business Purpose
Sharing for Targeted Advertising
Identifiers – this may include things like name, alias, postal address, unique personal identifier, online identifier, email address, or account name.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
Advertising Partners.
Financial Information – this may include bank account number, credit card number, debit card number, and other financial information.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Health Related Information – this may include mental or physical condition.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Commercial information – this may include information about products or services purchased, obtained, or considered, or other purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Advisors.
Advertising Partners.
Internet or other electronic network activity information – this may include browsing history, search history, and information regarding an individual’s interaction with an internet website, app, or ad.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
Advertising Partners.
Geolocation data – this could include non-precise geolocation information.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
Advertising Partners.
Professional or employment-related information – this includes, for example, information submitted by job applicants.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Non-public education information (as defined in the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Inferences drawn from any of the information listed above
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Additional categories of personal data described in the California Customer Records statute (Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.80(e)) – this may include signature, physical characteristics, or description, insurance policy number.
Company Group.
Service Providers.
Business Partners.
Professional Services.
N/A.
Sensitive Information Disclosure. We collect the following categories of sensitive personal data (as defined under California law): account log-in and password, biometric identifiers in the context of voice recognition programs, government ID in the context of a job application, additional sensitive information you choose to provide as input or prompt content. Sensitive data you choose to provide could reveal government identifiers, precise geolocation, racial or ethnic origin, health, citizenship or immigration status, religious or philosophical beliefs, or union membership, contents of mail, email, or text messages, genetic data, neural data, or data concerning sex life or sexual orientation. We also may collect health, genetic, biometric, and/or neural data if you enroll in Perplexity Health. We collect this data to process transactions, comply with laws, manage our business, or provide services.
Note that we do not use such data for any purposes that are not identified within Cal. Civ. Code § 1798.121. We do not “sell” or “share” sensitive personal data for cross-context behavioral advertising, although we may transfer it to third parties when you instruct us to do so. When that occurs, third parties will use it for the purposes indicated in their privacy notices.
Consumer Health Data Privacy Notice. If you participate in one of our health-specific services and upload data, connect third-party services, or direct us to collect information from third parties, we may collect your health, genetic, biometric, and/or neural data. If you choose to submit health-related sensitive information as part of a Service Interaction, we will receive such information. For example, if you choose to provide us – through a query, upload, or other use of our services – health-related data, or data concerning sex life or sexual orientation, then we would receive those categories of information. This may include where you provide sensitive information through your use of the service. Your health information may be shared in the following ways, in addition to those described elsewhere in this policy: with service providers that help us provide requested services, Apps/services that you connect to Perplexity health-related services and third party AI models that help us provide requested services. You can exercise rights related to this data by following the instructions in the Your Choices section, below.
Your Choices
Some jurisdictions give you a right to make the following choices:
Access. You may request access to your personal data or confirmation that we have data about you. In certain cases, you may ask to receive access to your data in a portable, machine-readable form.
List of Third-Party Recipients. You may request a list of third parties to whom we have disclosed personal data. Some areas also allow you to obtain a list of the categories of third parties to which we have disclosed personal data. You can find that information in the table above under the “How We Share Data” section.
Change. Most of our services allow you to change your account profile. If a service does not permit you to update or correct data, you can ask us to correct inaccuracies by contacting us at the address below. We may keep historical data in our backup files as permitted by law.
Deletion. You may ask us to delete your personal data. If required by law, we will grant such a request. Note, however, that in many cases we must keep your personal data to comply with legal obligations, resolve disputes, enforce agreements, or for other business purposes.
Opt-out of Website Targeted Advertising. When targeted advertising occurs on our services, you have the choice to opt-out. You can opt out of online targeted advertising (e.g. cookies and pixels) through the cookie consent pop-up that appears when you visit a Perplexity webpage. Because this preference is stored locally, you may need to set it again if you switch browsers or devices, or if you clear your browser's cache. We recognize
Global Privacy Control (GPC) signals
broadcast from web browsers as a valid opt-out request where required by applicable law. Please note that the GPC will apply only to your current browser. If there is a conflict between the GPC signal and a manual choice that you have made on our website regarding targeted advertising, we will honor your manual choice. We do not recognize the “Do Not Track” signal.
Opt-out of App-Based Targeted Advertising. You may opt-out of App-based targeted advertising (e.g., SDKs with advertising partners) by going to the settings menu in your mobile device.
Choices in Comet. You can attempt to prevent websites that you visit from accessing third-party cookies to personalize content and ads by going to Settings/Privacy and Security/Third-party cookies within Comet. You may also use Comet Incognito to limit the ability of others that use the same device to see your activity across sessions. You may opt-out of Browser-based targeted advertising (e.g. cookies and pixels) by adjusting the privacy settings in your browser.
Incognito. In addition to the option to use Comet in Incognito, as described previously, you may choose to use Incognito in our app and through parts of our website. Incognito increases your privacy by not saving your search activity across use sessions. For more information on Incognito, see
here
.
Objection to or Restriction of Certain Processing. In certain circumstances, you may object to the processing of your personal data, or ask that we restrict processing of your personal data. To do so, follow the instructions below.
Promotional Emails. You may provide us with your email address to allow us to send newsletters, surveys, offers, or other promotional content, as well as targeted offers from third parties. You can stop receiving such emails by following the unsubscribe instructions at the bottom of those emails. If you choose not to receive such emails, we may still send you service-related communications.
Revocation Of Consent. Where we process your personal data based upon consent, you may revoke consent. Note, if you revoke consent for processing personal data, we may no longer be able to provide you some types of services.
Not all the rights above are absolute, and they do not apply in all circumstances. We may limit or deny a request because the law permits or requires us to. We will not discriminate against individuals who exercise a privacy right.
Submitting Requests
You may exercise the above rights by contacting us via the contact information below. If you disagree with our denial of a request, you may appeal our decision by contacting us with the subject line “Appeal.”
We will require you to prove your identity when making most types of requests. We may verify your identity by phone or email, or by having you log into your account. Depending on your request, we will ask for information such as your name, email address, account-related information, or the date of your last subscription payment. We may also ask you to send us a signed declaration confirming your identity.
In some circumstances, you may designate an authorized agent to exercise rights on your behalf. To do so, you may designate, in writing or through a power of attorney document, an authorized agent to make requests on your behalf to exercise your rights. Before accepting such a request from an agent, we will require that the agent provide proof you have authorized them to act on your behalf, and we may need you to verify your identity directly with us.
How We Protect and Retain Data
No method of internet transmission or electronic storage is fully secure. While we use reasonable efforts to protect personal data, we cannot guarantee its security. If we are required to inform you about a security incident, we will do so electronically, in writing, or by phone, as the law permits.
Some of our services permit you to create an account. You are responsible for selecting a unique and complex password and keeping it confidential. You are responsible for any access to or use of your account by someone who has obtained your password, whether or not you approved of such access or use. Notify us of unauthorized use of your password or account immediately.
We keep your personal data for only as long as necessary to fulfil the purposes in this Notice unless a longer retention period is required or permitted by law. This includes the purposes of satisfying legal, accounting, or reporting requirements. To determine the appropriate retention period for personal data, we consider the amount, nature, and sensitivity of the data. We also weigh the potential risk of harm from unauthorized use or disclosure of the data, the purposes for which we obtained the data and whether we can meet those purposes through other means, as well as applicable legal requirements.
Transmission Of Data To Other Countries
As a multi-national company, we send data between and among our affiliates. As a result, we may process your data in a country with less stringent privacy laws than the laws in the country that you reside. Where possible, we treat personal data using the same privacy principles that guide the law of the country in which we first receive your data. By submitting your personal data to us you agree to the transfer, storage, and processing of your data in a country other than your country of residence including, but not limited to, the United States. For more information on our attempts to apply the privacy principles applicable in one area to data when it goes to another, contact us using the contact information below. You may also request a copy of any Standard Contractual Clauses we use for the transfer of your data outside of the EEA or United Kingdom, which includes the categories of information transferred, by contacting us using the contact information below.
We comply with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce (collectively, the “DPF”) and have certified to the U.S. Department of Commerce that we adhere to the DPF Principles with regard to the processing of personal data received from the European Union and UK (and Gibraltar) in reliance on the DPF.
If there is any conflict between the terms in this privacy policy and the DPF Principles, the Principles shall govern to the extent applicable to the information at issue. The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction over our compliance with the DPF and, in accordance with the DPF, we are responsible for onward transfers to third parties that process personal data subject to the DPF in a way that does not follow the DPF Principles. To learn more about the Data Privacy Framework program, and to view our certification, please visit the
Data Privacy Framework website
.
We commit to resolve DPF Principles-related complaints about our collection and use of personal data. Individuals in the EU and UK with inquiries or complaints regarding our compliance with the DPF should first contact us, at
support@perplexity.ai
. If you have an unresolved complaint concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the DPF that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our U.S.-based third-party dispute resolution provider (free of charge) at
https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/
. Under certain conditions, you may be entitled to invoke binding arbitration to resolve your complaint. In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, we commit to cooperate and comply respectively with the advice of the panel established by the EU data protection authorities (DPAs) and the UK Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) with regard to unresolved complaints concerning our handling of personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF.
Third-Party Applications/Websites
We may provide links to websites and other third-party content or services that we do not own or operate. We have no control over the privacy practices of websites or services we do not own. For details about such third parties’ privacy practices, see their privacy notices.
Changes To This Privacy Notice
We may change our Notice and privacy practices. New notices will be published on our website. If changes are material, the Notice that was in place when you submitted personal data to us will generally govern that data unless you consent to the new Notice. Our Notice shows “effective” and “last updated” dates below. The effective date is the date the current version took effect. The last updated date is the date the current version was last substantively changed.
Children
Our websites and online services are not meant for children under 13 years old, and we do not knowingly collect personal data from children under age 16 without parental consent. Children under 13 should not give us their personal data.
Contact Information
If you have questions, comments, or complaints on our privacy practices, or if you need to access this Notice in a different form due to a disability, please contact us. We will try to address your requests and provide you with additional privacy-related information. Email us at:
support@perplexity.ai
For EU inquiries:
Perplexity AI
Leipziger Platz 16
10117 Berlin
Germany
For UK inquiries:
Perplexity AI
10 Devonshire Square
London EC2M 4YP
United Kingdom
TrustKeith Ltd, a company registered at 20-22 Wenlock Road, London, is our DPO. To contact our representative or DPO, please submit a
data request here
.
If you are not satisfied with our response and are in the European Union or United Kingdom, you may have a right to lodge a complaint with your local supervisory authority.

--- Content from https://www.perplexity.ai/hub/legal/aup ---

Blog
Research
Careers
Help Center
Ask anything
Legal overview
Platform User Terms
Enterprise & Developer Terms
Policies & Guidelines
Privacy & Data Protection
Perplexity Acceptable Use Policy
Last updated: July 8th, 2025
Thank you for choosing to use Perplexity (the “Services”). At Perplexity AI, Inc. (“Perplexity”), we are committed to lawful, safe and responsible artificial intelligence development and use, which this Acceptable Use Policy (this “Policy”) is designed to promote.
Please note that this Policy is incorporated into the terms and conditions or other agreement that you have entered into with Perplexity (or an authorized third-party distributor) that governs your use of the Services.
Respect applicable law
.  You must not access, deploy or use the Services to conduct or facilitate any activity that is unlawful, fraudulent, or that violates the rights of others. For example, you may not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Facilitate cybercrime or other types of crime (e.g., hacking, phishing, identity theft, or creation or distribution of malware); or plan, promote, advocate, or assist in any illegal or violent actions (e.g., terrorism, threats, or the planning of violent or criminal acts);
Compromise the privacy of others (e.g., collecting, disclosing or otherwise processing personal data without complying with applicable legal requirements);
Violate any contract or agreement to which you are a party; or
Submit any material to the Services, or use the Services to create, compile or distribute any material, without having all necessary rights, licenses, consents or permissions to do so.
Avoid high-risk activity.
You must not access, deploy or use the Services to conduct or facilitate any activity that poses a significant threat to individuals or society (whether or not it is expressly illegal in your jurisdiction). For example, you may not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Create, compile or distribute disinformation or manipulative content; harassing, hateful or defamatory content; pornographic or exploitative content; unsolicited advertising or promotional materials; or unauthorized collections of personal data;
Create content that you subsequently claim was created solely by humans, or otherwise misrepresent the provenance of information or content; or provide chatbot services without disclosing to end users that they are interacting with AI (unless it is obvious from the context);
Facilitate or engage in real money gambling, payday lending, political campaigning, lobbying, academic dishonesty or self-harm;
Provide services targeted to users under the age of 13; or medical, financial, tax, legal or other services that would typically require specialized credentials or licensing without appropriate professional oversight;
Make automated decisions about individuals that materially impact them (e.g., decisions regarding their employment, healthcare, finances, housing or insurance) or where errors could be dangerous (e.g., decisions related to the management of critical infrastructure or safety components of products); or
Engage in any activity or practice that is prohibited or considered ‘high risk’ under the European Union’s AI Act (
here
) or any other similar regulations governing deployment and/or use of artificial intelligence systems of services.
Avoid technical misuse
.  You must respect Perplexity and the third parties whose AI models help power the Services. This means you must not access, deploy or use the Services to:
Copy, distribute, rent, lease, lend, license, transfer or make derivative works of the Services or any related materials or use any of the foregoing on a service bureau or similar basis;
Decompile, distill, jailbreak, subject to prompt injection or other adversarial attacks, reverse engineer, or disassemble the Services or otherwise attempt to discover the source code, model weights or other algorithmic parameters of the Services (including the third-party AI models used in the Services);
Probe, scan, or test the vulnerability of the Services or related systems;
Remove watermarks, metadata or other indicia intended to identify outputs as artificially generated or manipulated, or circumvent abuse protections or safety filters, whether Perplexity’s or those of a third party;
Create or make available any products or services competitive with, similar to, or that would otherwise be a substitute for the Services (or the third-party AI models used in the Services), except with Perplexity’s express prior written permission; or
Engage in any activity that interferes with, disrupts, damages or accesses in an unauthorized manner the servers, networks or other properties or services of Perplexity or any third party.
Respect our partners
. The Services may use AI models provided by third parties. When using the Services, therefore, you must comply with those parties’ acceptable usage policies.
Exceptions
. Perplexity, in its sole discretion, may grant educational, documentary, scientific, or artistic-based exceptions to this Policy, or where harms are outweighed by substantial benefits to the public.
Changes to This Policy
. We may modify this Policy at any time to reflect changes in our practices, technology, legal requirements, or other factors. Your continued use of the Services following the posting or notice of any changes will mean you accept those changes.
By accessing, deploying or using the Services, you agree to comply with this Policy.  Subject to the terms of your agreement with Perplexity or authorized third-party distributor (as applicable), your failure to comply with this Policy may result in suspension or termination, or both, of the Services.