50.1. “AI Services” means, collectively, Amazon Bedrock, Amazon CodeGuru Profiler, Amazon CodeGuru Reviewer, Amazon Foundation Models (Amazon Nova and Titan models), Amazon Nova Act, Amazon Nova Forge, Amazon Comprehend, Amazon Comprehend Medical, Amazon DevOps Guru, Amazon Forecast, AWS HealthLake, Amazon Kendra, Amazon Lex, Amazon Lookout for Metrics, Amazon Personalize, Amazon Polly, Amazon Q, AWS Transform, Amazon Rekognition, Amazon Textract, Amazon Transcribe, Amazon Transcribe Medical, Amazon Translate, AWS HealthOmics, AWS HealthImaging, AWS HealthScribe, AWS App Studio, Kiro, Amazon Quick, AWS Elemental Inference, AWS DevOps Agent, AWS Continuum (including features previously named AWS Security Agent), AWS FinOps Agent (Preview), the model customization agent in SageMaker AI, and AWS IoT SiteWise Scenario Discovery. “AI Content” means Your Content that is processed by an AI Service.
50.2. The output that you generate using AI Services is Your Content. Due to the nature of machine learning, output may not be unique across customers and the Services may generate the same or similar results across customers.
50.3. You agree and instruct that for Amazon CodeGuru Profiler, Amazon Comprehend, Amazon Lex, Amazon Polly, Amazon Rekognition, Amazon Textract, Amazon Transcribe, Amazon Translate, AWS Transform, AWS FinOps Agent (Preview), Kiro Free Tier, and Kiro individual subscribers (as described here): (a) we may use and store AI Content that is processed by each of the foregoing AI Services to develop and improve the applicable AI Service and its underlying technologies; (b) we may use and store AI Content that is not personal data to develop and improve AWS and affiliate machine-learning and artificial-intelligence technologies; and (c) solely in connection with the development and improvement described in clauses (a) and (b), we may store such AI Content in an AWS region outside of the AWS region where you are using such AI Service. This Section does not apply to Amazon Comprehend Medical, Amazon Transcribe Medical, AWS HealthScribe, Amazon Comprehend Detect PII or any AI Service that is not listed in the first sentence of this Section 50.3. You may instruct AWS not to use and store AI Content processed by an AI Service to develop and improve that Service or technologies of AWS or its affiliates by configuring an AI services opt-out policy using AWS Organizations. For access to AI Services via AWS Builder ID or a third-party authentication provider, you may instruct AWS to refrain from using and storing AI Content processed by an AI Service to develop and improve that Service or technologies of AWS or its affiliates by using the opt-out mechanism indicated in the applicable service documentation.
50.4. You are responsible for providing legally adequate privacy notices to End Users of your products or services that use any AI Service and obtaining any necessary consent from such End Users for the processing of AI Content and the storage, use, and transfer of AI Content as described under this Section 50. You represent to us that you have provided all necessary privacy notices and obtained all necessary consents. You are responsible for notifying us in the event that any AI Content stored by an AI Service must be deleted under applicable law. If you use Amazon Lex in connection with websites, programs or other applications that are directed or targeted, in whole or in part, to children under age 13 and subject to COPPA or similar laws you must: (a) provide all required notices and obtain all required verifiable parental consent under COPPA or similar laws; and (b) notify AWS during the Amazon Lex set-up process using the appropriate (i) check box in the AWS console or (ii) Boolean parameter in the applicable Amazon Lex Model Building Service API request or response as specified by the Amazon Lex technical documentation. Amazon Lex does not store or retain voice or text utterance information from websites, programs, or other applications that you identify in accordance with this Section as being directed or targeted, in whole or in part, to children under age 13 and subject to COPPA or similar laws.
50.5. Except where permitted by the AI Service, you may not use an AI Service to generate Content for the express purpose of training an AI model or service or developing a substantially similar AI model or service.
50.6. AI Services are not intended for use in, or in association with, the operation of any hazardous environments or critical systems that may lead to serious bodily injury or death or cause environmental or property damage. AI Services may be used in connection with supporting healthcare services but are not medical devices and are not intended to be used by themselves for any clinical decision-making or other clinical use. You are responsible for liability that may arise in connection with any such uses.
50.7. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Agreement, you may incorporate into your programs or applications, and distribute as incorporated in such programs or applications, the binary code that we distribute for AI Services with the AWS Mobile SDKs.
50.8. Law Enforcement Use of Amazon Rekognition. Amazon Rekognition’s face comparison feature uses machine learning to detect similarities between faces in different images and generate predictions of the likelihood the same person appears in both images; it does not provide definitive identifications of any person. Given the nature of machine learning systems, the following terms apply when Law Enforcement Agencies use Amazon Rekognition’s face comparison feature in connection with criminal investigations. “Law Enforcement Agency” means a government entity whose primary purpose and responsibilities are criminal investigation, apprehension and prosecution.
50.8.1. If Amazon Rekognition is used to assist in identifying a person, and actions will be taken based on the identification that could impact that person’s civil liberties or equivalent human rights, the decision to take action must be made by an appropriately trained person based on their independent examination of the identification evidence.
50.8.2. Law Enforcement Agencies that use Amazon Rekognition to assist personnel in making decisions that could impact civil liberties or equivalent human rights must ensure such personnel receive appropriate training on responsible use of facial recognition systems, including how to properly operate the system and interpret its results. For an example of how to implement such training, see the Facial Recognition Policy Development Template published by the U.S Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Assistance.
50.8.3. Amazon Rekognition may not be used for sustained surveillance of a specific person without following an independent review process that is designed to protect civil liberties or equivalent human rights (such as obtaining a court order, warrant, or other authorization), unless the use is to address exigent circumstances involving a threat of death or serious harm to a person.
50.8.4. Law Enforcement Agencies that use Amazon Rekognition for criminal investigations must provide a public disclosure describing their use of facial recognition systems. The method and content of the disclosure is at the reasonable discretion of the agency, but should be easily accessible to the public (such as a posting on a website), describe how the facial recognition system is used, and summarize safeguards in place to prevent violations of civil liberties or equivalent human rights. For examples, see this statement from the FBI and the Facial Recognition Policy Development Template published by the U.S Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Assistance.
50.9. Amazon Rekognition. The following terms also apply to Amazon Rekognition:
50.9.1. Amazon has implemented a moratorium on use of Amazon Rekognition’s face comparison feature by police departments in connection with criminal investigations. This moratorium does not apply to use of Amazon Rekognition’s face comparison feature to help identify or locate missing persons.
50.9.2. You agree that if you use Amazon Rekognition’s face APIs to analyze, detect, or process faces in images or videos, then you instruct AWS, as your processor, to: (1) generate face vectors and extract other facial attributes on your behalf; (2) store your face vectors in a secure AWS environment; (3) store, delete, and search your face vectors only at your direction or as necessary to maintain or provide Amazon Rekognition or comply with the law or a binding order of a governmental body; and (4) not use your face vectors for any other purpose (unless you instruct otherwise in writing) or transfer them to any third party. As the owner and controller of your face vectors, you instruct us to store them solely within AWS’s secure environment.
50.9.3. Your use of Amazon Rekognition is subject to additional Biometric Notice and Consent Service Terms.
50.10. Defense of Claims and Indemnity for Indemnified Generative AI Services. AWS Services may incorporate generative AI features and provide Generative AI Output to you. “Generative AI Output” means output generated by a generative artificial intelligence model in response to inputs or other data provided by you. “Indemnified Generative AI Services” means, collectively, generally available features of Amazon Nova Micro, Amazon Nova Lite, Amazon Nova Pro, Amazon Nova Premier, Amazon Nova Canvas, Amazon Nova Reel, Amazon Nova Forge Models (as defined below), Amazon Nova Sonic, Amazon Nova 2 Omni, Amazon Nova Act, Amazon Titan Text Express, Amazon Titan Text Lite, Amazon Nova Multimodal Embeddings, Amazon Titan Text Premier, Amazon Titan Text Embeddings, Amazon Titan Multimodal Embeddings, Amazon Titan Image Generator, AWS HealthScribe, Amazon Personalize, Amazon Q (excluding Amazon Q Developer Free Tier), AWS Transform, Amazon Bio Discovery (excluding Amazon Bio Discovery Academic Tier), Amazon Connect Customer, Amazon Connect Decisions, Amazon Connect Health, Amazon Connect Talent, Amazon Lex, Kiro (excluding Kiro Free Tier), AWS DevOps Agent, AWS Continuum (including features previously named AWS Security Agent), and Amazon Quick. The following terms apply to the Indemnified Generative AI Services:
50.10.1. Subject to the limitations in this Section 50.10, AWS will defend you and your employees, officers, and directors against any third-party claim alleging that the Generative AI Output generated by an Indemnified Generative AI Service infringes or misappropriates that third party’s intellectual property rights, and will pay the amount of any adverse final judgment or settlement.
50.10.2. AWS will have no obligations or liability under Section 50.10.1 with respect to any claim: (i) arising from Generative AI Output generated in connection with inputs or other data provided by you where such inputs or other data, alone or in combination, infringe or misappropriate another party’s intellectual property rights; (ii) if you interfere with or fail to enable available filters and other tools, or disregard instructions made available for the Indemnified Generative AI Service; (iii) if your use of the Indemnified Generative AI Service breaches the Agreement; (iv) if you have fine-tuned, refined, customized, or otherwise modified an Indemnified Generative AI Service and the alleged infringement or misappropriation would not have occurred but for this fine-tuning, refinement, customization, or modification; (v) arising after you receive notice to stop using the Generative AI Output; (vi) arising from Generative AI Output that you know or reasonably should know may infringe or misappropriate another party’s intellectual property rights; or (vii) alleging that your use of Generative AI Output infringes a third party’s trademark or related rights. The remedies in this Section 50.10 are the sole and exclusive remedies under the Agreement for any third-party claims alleging that the Generative AI Output generated by an Indemnified Generative AI Service infringes or misappropriates a third party’s intellectual property rights. AWS’s defense and payment obligations under this Section 50.10 will not be subject to any damages cap under the Agreement.
50.10.3. The obligations under this Section 50.10 will apply only if you: (a) give AWS prompt written notice of the claim; (b) permit AWS to control the defense of the claim; (c) retain and provide sufficient records to the extent necessary to evaluate your eligibility for the defense of claims and indemnity set forth in this Section 50.10; and (d) reasonably cooperate with AWS (at AWS’s expense) in the defense and settlement of the claim. AWS may settle the claim as AWS deems appropriate, provided that AWS obtains your prior written consent (not to be unreasonably withheld) before entering into any settlement.
50.11. Neither you nor your End Users will, or will attempt to, extract or derive underlying components, including any model, model parameters, or model weights or reproduce the training data of AI Services.
50.12. Amazon Bedrock. The following terms apply to Amazon Bedrock:
50.12.1. Third-party models are available to you on Amazon Bedrock as “Third-Party Content”. By using a third-party model, you agree to the applicable terms here. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Agreement or Service Terms, Section 20 (AWS Marketplace) above applies to your use of models sold by third parties, and Amazon Web Services, Inc. is the invoicing party with respect to these models.
50.12.2. Abuse Detection. For certain models identified on the Bedrock abuse detection page, as part of providing the Service, Amazon Bedrock stores Service inputs and outputs for up to 30 days (unless otherwise required by law) solely to detect activity that violates our, or third-party model providers’, terms of service or use policies. If we detect a potential violation, you agree and instruct that we may review the Service inputs and outputs to determine if a violation has occurred.
50.12.2.1. If we detect apparent child sexual abuse material (“CSAM”), you agree and instruct that we may: (a) review the flagged input or output to determine if it is CSAM, and (b) report the incident to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children or other authority.
50.12.3. Provisioned throughput commitments for Bedrock. We may change provisioned throughput commitment pricing or stop offering commitments for provisioned throughput at any time. Any price changes will not apply to existing commitments. Provisioned throughput commitments are nontransferable and noncancellable, so you will be charged for the duration of the term you selected, even if you terminate the Agreement.
50.12.4. Amazon Bedrock may allow you to customize models with data you provide (for example, by fine-tuning). You will have exclusive use of your customized model. Third-party model providers cannot access your customized model. We will not access or use your customized model except as necessary to maintain or provide the Amazon Bedrock Service, or as necessary to comply with the law or a binding order of a governmental body.
50.12.5. We may share information, that does not include Your Content, about your use of a third-party model with the provider of that third-party model.
50.12.5.1. Certain Anthropic products and features (e.g., Claude Code, computer use) may embed metadata in requests sent to Anthropic models on Amazon Bedrock. AWS may notify Anthropic which of this metadata is present in your Service inputs for Anthropic's product-level usage attribution.
50.12.6. Output generated by models accessed through Amazon Bedrock may include information such as metadata, digital signatures, or watermarks to identify it is generated using a generative artificial intelligence model ("Provenance Data"), as indicated in applicable documentation (for example, see here for Amazon Titan Image Generator). Neither you nor any End User may modify, tamper with, remove, obscure, or otherwise alter such Provenance Data.
50.13. Amazon Q. To help Amazon Q provide the most relevant information, we may use AI Content processed by Amazon Q, such as prompts and responses (“Amazon Q Content”), for service improvement as described below. Currently, this Section 50.13 applies only to Amazon Q Developer Free Tier, and we may add Amazon Q features or services from time to time as they launch. This Section 50.13 does not apply to any Amazon Q feature or service that is not listed in the prior sentence.
50.13.1. Service Improvement. You agree and instruct that we may use Amazon Q Content to develop and improve Amazon Q and its underlying technologies, and for that purpose we may store Amazon Q Content in an AWS region outside of the AWS region where you are using Amazon Q.
50.13.2. Other Service Improvement. You agree and instruct that we may also use Amazon Q Content that does not contain personal data to develop and improve AWS and affiliate machine-learning and artificial intelligence technologies including to train machine-learning models.
50.13.3. Further Instructions. You may instruct AWS not to use and store Amazon Q Content for service improvement as described in this Section 50.13 by (i) configuring an AI services opt-out policy using AWS Organizations, (ii) if you use Amazon Q in the IDE, by adjusting your settings in the IDE, or (iii) using the opt-out mechanism described in the Amazon Q documentation.
50.14. Kiro
50.14.1. If you purchase your Kiro subscription on a payment portal powered by Stripe, then for purposes of your use of Kiro, Amazon Web Services, Inc. is the AWS Contracting Party under the Agreement.
50.14.2. Per Section 1.24 of the Service Terms, Amazon Bedrock abuse detection mechanisms apply to your use of Kiro, including our retention and potential human review of inputs and outputs when you select certain models. See here for more details. Additionally, only for Kiro Free Tier users, we may store your inputs for up to 60 days (unless otherwise required by law) for the purposes of detecting activity that violates the Agreement and improving our ability to detect such activity.
50.15. Amazon Bedrock AgentCore Payments
50.15.1. Amazon Bedrock AgentCore Payments helps you develop agentic payment solutions by transmitting your API calls and other messages between your AI agents, your selected third-party wallet providers, and third-party sellers. AWS does not provide regulated financial services as part of AgentCore Payments. AWS is not a party to or in the flow of funds for any payment facilitated by your use of AgentCore Payments.
50.15.2. To use AgentCore Payments, you must connect your wallet through a third-party wallet provider. Wallets are Third Party Content and governed by separate terms between you and the third-party wallet provider. AWS does not have custody or control over, and is not responsible for any wallets, funds, digital assets, or associated private keys used in connection with AgentCore Payments. AWS is not responsible for any services you may receive from your wallet provider.
50.15.3. You will: (a) use AgentCore Payments in compliance with applicable laws and industry-specific requirements and standards, including, if required for your use case, obtaining any government licenses or registrations; and (b) test, monitor, and implement safeguards (such as human-in-the-loop) for your use of AgentCore Payments as may be appropriate for your use case, including by managing and securing your wallet and private keys and ensuring transactions are accurate and authorized. You are solely responsible for any transactions, disputes, or payments liability arising from or related to your use of AgentCore Payments.
50.15.4. AWS may change or discontinue AgentCore Payments’ support for any third-party wallet provider at any time. We will provide you with prior notice if we discontinue support of a wallet provider where practicable under the circumstances. AWS may impose limits on your use of AgentCore Payments, such as limits on transaction amounts, frequency, or volumes at any time.
50.16. Claude Platform on AWS
50.16.1. Your use of Claude Platform on AWS is subject to Anthropic’s Commercial Terms of Service, Data Processing Addendum, Usage Policy, and other agreements with Anthropic governing your use of their services. If you use Claude Platform on AWS you: (1) acknowledge that the Content you provide in connection with your use of Claude Platform on AWS, together with associated metadata, will be processed by Anthropic outside of AWS in a location of their choosing; (2) authorize AWS to transfer such Content and associated metadata to Anthropic for processing.
50.16.2. We may change, deprecate or discontinue Claude Platform on AWS at any time. We will provide you with prior notice of any deprecation or discontinuation of Claude Platform on AWS where practicable under the circumstances.
50.16.3. Invoicing for Claude Platform on AWS is facilitated by AWS Marketplace so Section 20.1 (AWS Marketplace Buyer Terms) above applies to your use of Claude Platform on AWS.
50.16.4. We may share information about your use of Claude Platform on AWS with Anthropic, as well as any data and associated metadata necessary to provide or maintain the service. Anthropic may also share account and usage information with us.
50.17. Amazon Quick
50.17.1. Quick Readers. Readers (as defined in the Quick documentation) that are used for automatically or programmatically refreshing dashboards for near real-time use cases must choose capacity pricing. For readers under user pricing, each reader is limited to manual use by one individual only.