Whole of AI lifecycle: statements 1 - 8
Whole of AI lifecycle includes statements that apply across multiple AI product lifecycle stages, for ease of use and to minimise content duplication.
The challenges for government use of AI are complex and linked with other governance considerations, such as:
the APS Code of Conduct
data governance
cyber security
ICT infrastructure
privacy
sourcing and procurement
copyright
ethics practices.
Across the lifecycle stages, agencies should consider:
technology operations – to ensure compliance, efficiency, and ethical standards
reference architecture – to provide structured frameworks that guide the design, development, and management of AI solutions
people capabilities – having the specialised skills required for successful implementation
auditability – enabling external scrutiny, supporting transparency, and accountability
explainability – identifying what needs to be explained and when, making complex AI processes transparent and trustworthy
system bias – maintaining the role of positive bias in delivering meaningful outcomes, while mitigating the source and impacts of problematic bias
version control – tracking and managing changes to information to inform stakeholder decision-making
watermarking – to embed visual or hidden markers into generated content so that its creation details can be identified.
Notes:
Agencies must consider intellectual property rights and ownership derived from procured services or datasets used (including general AI outputs) to comply with
copyright law
.
Management of bias in an AI system is critical to ensuring compliance with
Australia’s anti-discrimination law
.
All documents relating to the establishment, design, and governance of an AI implemented solution must be retained to comply with
information management legislation
.
Agencies must comply with data privacy and protection practices as per the
Australian Privacy Principles
.
Agencies must consider
data and lineage
compliance with Australian Government regulations.
Agencies should refer to the Policy of responsible use of AI in government to implement
AI fundamentals training
for all staff, regardless of their role. To support agencies with their implementation of the Policy, the DTA provides
Guidance for staff training on AI
.
Australian Government
API guidelines
mandate the use of semantic versioning.
Agencies should refer to the
Australian parliamentary recommendations
on AI including risk management, people capabilities, and implement measures for
algorithmic bias
.
Any infrastructure, both software and hardware, for AI services and solutions must adhere to Australian Government regulations and should consider security as priority as recommended by the Australian Government guidance on
AI System Development
,
Deploying AI Systems Securely
and
Engaging with AI
. The recommendations include secure well-architected environments, whether on-premises, cloud-based, or hybrid, to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of AI services.
Agencies using cloud-based systems should refer to
Cloud Financial Optimisation (Cloud FinOps)
.
Agencies must consider
security frameworks
, controls and practices with respect to the
Information security manual (ISM)
,
Essential Eight maturity model
,
Protective Security Policy Framework
and
Strategies to mitigate cyber security incidents
.
Reuse digital, ICT, data and AI solutions in line with the Australian Government
Reuse standard
. This includes pre-existing AI assets and components from organisational repositories or open-source platforms.
The
Budget Process Operational Rules (BPORs)
mandate that entities must consult with the DTA before seeking authority to come forward for
Expenditure Review Committee
agreement to digital and ICT-enabled New Policy Proposals, to meet the requirements of the
Digital and ICT Investment Oversight Framework
. Digital proposals likely to have financial implications of $30 million or more, may be subject to the
ICT Investment Approval Process (IIAP)
.
Management of human, society and environmental impact should ensure alignment with
National Agreement on Closing the Gap
,
Working for Women – A Strategy for Gender Equality
,
Australia’s Disability Strategy 2021-2031
,
National Plan to End Gender Based Violence
,
APS Net Zero Emissions by 2030 Strategy
,
Environmentally Sustainable Procurement Policy
and Environmental impact assessment.
The DTA oversees sourcing of digital and ICT for the whole of government and provides a suite of policies and guidelines to support responsible procurement practices of agencies, such as the
Procurement and Sourcing | aga
and
Lifecycle - BuyICT
guidance.
AI model clauses
provide guidance for purchasing AI systems.
Next lifecycle
The design lifecycle
The design statements includes concept development, requirements engineering, and solution design.
Next page
Statement 1: Define an operational model